This is Jockel Podcast number 172.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, I go.
Good evening.
The President of the United States takes pride in presenting the distinguished service
cross, posthumously, to Fred Garland, Bragg, Jr.
First Lieutenant, US Army.
For extraordinary heroism in action, in connection with military operations involving conflict
with an armed hostile force in the Republic of Vietnam, while serving with battery, bravo,
fourth battalion, forty-second artillery, fourth infantry division.
First Lieutenant Bragg, distinguished himself, by exceptionally valorous actions on 12 July
1967, while serving as artillery forward observer with an infantry company, while on a
search and destroy mission near the Cambodian border in central Highlands.
When his company was surrounded, and the company commander was killed, Lieutenant Bragg immediately
took command and directed extremely deadly artillery fire on the insurgent forces.
He bravely moved among his men, giving encouragement and regrouping them into a more secure
defense, although he was fully exposed to intense mortar and automatic weapons fire.
Seriously wounded, he continued to direct air strikes on the advancing enemy until a mortar
round destroyed his only remaining radio.
Staying in the open, he poured round after round of deadly fire into the advancing enemy
force.
He gave his life, while bravely leading his men in the face of overwhelming odds.
First Lieutenant Bragg's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty at the cost of his
life were in keeping with the highest traditions of the military service and reflect
great credit upon himself, his unit, and United States Army.
Headquarters, US Army, Vietnam, September 14, 1967.
So there is some leadership, and obviously some heroism, a lot of heroism.
But that leadership taking command, directing fire, regrouping his men, returning fire into
an advancing enemy force, directing his men despite overwhelming odds.
That is leadership, that is leadership from one officer in the United States Army.
But obviously there are countless examples of that leadership, leadership, and leadership.
And it's so clear.
And it's so obvious when you see it, especially from the outside.
But it is hard to actually emulate that leadership and to perform it, especially when
you're caught up in that moment.
And so we have to continue to work on it at all times and at every level.
And today we're going to talk about a book.
It's a field manual, actually, that I think can help us a lot with our leadership.
And it's an older manual, which comes as no surprise.
This one comes from 1951.
But I think you're going to see that the lessons applied just as much today as they did
more than a half a century ago.
The book is FM2210 leadership.
And here we go.
Let's go to the book.
Talking about the purpose of the study of leadership.
Today more than ever in history, the army is in need of leadership of the highest caliber.
With the increase in the complexity of warfare, the science of wars increasingly dependent
upon human guidance.
No matter how complicated it may become, war is always waged by men.
The man who leads and the men who are led win wars.
Just remember if our military force must be a leader, actually or potentially.
Now you could say those same words right now about what's happening right now.
And sometimes people want to ask me, well what about when the drones are ready?
You know what I mean?
Yes.
And when you see the progress that's happening right now, when you see some of those robot
things that are doing pretty good, then we start mountain some weapons on those things.
Yeah, there's going to be a point where those things will start fighting each other.
And they'll replace humans on the battlefield to a certain extent because the bottom line
is what happens when you run out of robots.
Yeah.
When you run out of robots who's left humans and you're not going to be able to manufacture
enough of those things.
So sure, that I'm sure there'll be battles that take place with just robots fighting other
military robots or our robots fighting other fighting humans.
Or sometimes it's going to be humans against robots and sometimes it's going to be humans
against humans.
You're never going to be able to get away from that.
In my opinion, I'm not happy about that.
I'm not happy about that at all.
Like I'm down.
If you want to have robot wars, cool.
Bring it.
I would rather that's better.
That's better for us.
We have good technology.
We'll go toe to toe.
And we'll create some killer robots.
And I know people are scared of them.
Every time a robot does something cool, I get 5 million tweets of it that are telling
me, hey, watch out.
And then they show the ones slipping on a banana peel falling down.
Even worse, since I was in the SEAL teams, put any of those spray of squirt gun at those
things.
You know what I mean?
The things are going to fry.
So bringing it on robots.
But no, I'm not anti-robot.
And I think you just have to put a system in there that can stop them.
You have to put a little kill switch on them.
Like you have on a jet ski.
Yeah, like on Terminator 4.
Terminator Salvation, that was the whole deal.
Kill switch.
Like a little program or whatever.
Did they try to eliminate it?
Because if I had a kill switch, I'd figured out.
Yeah, I could have a robot do that.
Yeah, I wonder.
I mean, you know, robots and AI, right?
They go for like a trial and error kind of learning kind of situation.
I mean, they can do that like people can.
So if you maybe if the humans implemented it and it didn't 100% succeed, then the robot
would be like, okay, this is what happened and analyzed.
And then yeah, it creates a defense.
My point is, my point is, hey, seriously.
Like I know that, I mean, look at drones.
Yeah, fully.
The rider pilots have much longer.
Like Dave Burke out of a job.
Good deal, Dave.
Yeah, good out of a job.
We're not going to need Dave Burke anymore.
Dave, real?
Hey, why would you?
You know, and I've had the little bit of this conversation with Dave.
And he's, you know, he's trying to, he's trying to hang on to it, bro.
He's trying to hang on with glory days.
He still thinks he's Tom Cruise 1987.
But here's the real deal.
If you look at it pragmatically in another generation, there won't be any more pilots
in my opinion.
Yeah.
And I think that's what Dave said to us.
Like we're a couple, I think he said a couple generations.
I said, hey, man, this isn't going to take a couple generations.
We already have drones that are flying around.
So people are always going to have to fight.
I hate to say it, but you have to be prepared.
Even if you build a robot army, there's a chance that the robot army gets overrun
or destroyed somehow.
And then guess who's left?
You with a weapon.
So with a weapon and with groups of human beings that need to be led.
Back to the book, and the ultimate sentleted sense leadership is not inherent.
It depends upon traits which can be developed and upon the application of techniques which
can be learned.
This is important.
People always ask it all the time.
Is leadership, are you born or made?
And I always say yes, both.
You have some natural skills.
And they say the same thing here.
But there are plenty of skills and techniques that you can learn as a leader that will
make you a better leader.
Back to the book, it is an art which can be acquired, cultivated, and practiced by anyone
who possesses the mental and physical ability and the moral and ethical integrity expected
of a commissioned or non-commissioned officer, developing the art which I agree with.
It is an art.
Is a continuing process which involves the recognition and practice of the basic traits
of leadership and the understanding and application of sound leadership principles and
techniques.
Okay.
Turn off, we can become better leaders.
Despite this guide, it constantly must be born in mind that successful leaders of the past
were not all of the same pattern.
Nor did they all use the same methods of attaining success.
All of them, however, consciously or unconsciously understood the basic concepts of leadership
and successfully practiced many of the techniques presented in this manual.
And this to be honest with you is one of the most simple straightforward kind of guides
to leadership which makes it awesome.
Starting off with characteristics of leadership, essential nature of leadership, the military
profession has no monopoly on leadership in every walk of life and every industry, in every
government and every phase of human endeavour that are leaders and that are followers.
Progress and success are dependent upon the quality and efficacy of leadership.
Elements of leadership.
Leadership is the art of influencing human behavior, the ability to handle men.
The art of influencing behavior, the very essence of leadership in turn involves understanding
analyzing, predicting and controlling man's behavior.
So involved in successful leadership is the will to lead together with the character which inspires
confidence.
So, you know, when you're talking about character, these things are things that in the will
to lead, like you're going to be born with some level of those things.
I guess maybe character obviously you can develop that, but certain people are born with
a stronger will.
And I'm sure you see it with your kids, I see with my kids.
And when I see my kids interacting with other kids, you can see all this kids got a strong
will to win.
They're not going to stop.
Sometimes not even to their own benefit.
I mean, they're just not going to stop.
Undoubtedly, there are certain inherent characteristics which may aid in the development
of leadership.
This is what I say all the time.
Yet, there are assuredly certain men possessing desirable leadership traits who have never
attained the Statue of Great Leaders.
So yeah, you can be a naturally gifted leader and guess what you're in charge of.
Another thing, likewise, there are men deficient in certain of these traits who have attained
this Statue.
Any theory that that leadership is solely inherited must be rejected.
Leadership is intangible only to the extent that we make it so.
Any reasonably intelligent, morally sound, forceful man, no matter how inexperienced
can become acquainted with the component elements of leadership.
These elements may be studied, practiced, learned, and applied, just as any other human accomplishment
may be learned or mastered.
Now, we have limitations.
You know who Alex Honald is?
He's the guy that climbed El Capitan, Free Solo.
Did you see that movie?
What?
Free Solo is the name of the movie.
Okay.
El Capitan, have you ever been to your semedy?
Okay, it's a 3000 foot straight up granite wall.
He climbed the whole thing in three hours with no ropes, just hanging on.
So my point in bringing up Alex Honald is that he has a natural gift for climbing, which
he then completely worked and trained and took to the next level.
But that's the way it is with leadership.
There's going to be some people that just have this great natural ability, which Alex
Honald certainly had a great natural ability, but then he worked on it even more.
But even if you took someone that was, there's people that may want to do what he did,
but they're not physically capable of doing it.
It's just, you know, you don't have the physical attributes that are needed.
You don't have the mental attributes, because what he did was a mental game.
Two, you're up, 2,800 feet.
So check that out.
Going on back to the book, the leader in the small group, every leader, whether civilian
or military, actually maintains close personal contact with only a small group, regardless
of the number of men ultimately controlled by him.
And everably, he must have penned upon that small group in order to make his will known
and to execute his purpose.
In the realm of the military, we refer to the small group as immediate supportants and staff.
And also, this is the centralized command, 100%.
You can't control everyone.
If you're in charge of 50 people in a platoon, you can't control them all.
Doesn't work.
You have to use your subordinate leadership to make it work.
Next, military leadership.
Military leadership is the art of influencing and directing men to an assigned goal in
such a way as to obtain their obedience confidence, respect, and loyal cooperation.
It is indispensable to success in combat.
Like all leadership, it is dependent upon personal traits and upon the application of
recognized techniques.
The personal traits can be developed and the techniques can be learned.
Now, this is important because you might think that, oh, Jaco's talking about military
leadership now in 2018, and it's a softer, gentler form of leadership than it used to be.
Right?
You might think that.
Now, it's not.
That's the thing.
It's not.
At no time in the US military was the best way to lead to bar quarters of people.
And that's what they're saying.
This is 1951.
This is post-World War II.
These guys who came back from World War II, from insane fighting, and they put together
this manual.
And they knew that military leadership is the art of influencing.
And it goes a little bit deeper right here.
There are two kinds of leadership, authoritarian and persuasive.
One who is predominantly of the authoritarian type, normally is recognized by the dogmatic
use of authority or power.
The persuasive type of leadership takes into consideration the human element with all
its complexity and with all its differentiation of the physical, mental, and moral capabilities
and limitations of the individual.
To a great extent, the persuasive leader bases his skill in leadership upon example and
ability with high standards of discipline and efficiency for himself, as well as for
her followers.
This manual is concerned solely with the development of the persuasive type of leadership.
So they got a whole book here and they're going to spend zero time talking about here's
the best way to bark an order at someone because that is not an effective way to lead.
So even in 1951, coming out of World War II, coming out of sustained four years of combat,
the military leaders got together and said, oh yeah, do we need to talk about how to bark
orders of people?
No we don't.
We need to talk about how to persuade how to influence.
The exercise of command is the authority that a member of the military profession lawfully
exerts over subordinates by virtue of his rank and assignment.
Leadership can be exercised by any one at any time irrespective of the framework of command.
So I'm going to say that again.
So yeah, you can use your rank.
That's what they're saying.
You can use your rank.
You have subordinates and you can use your rank to order them around.
But leadership can be exercised by anyone at any time irrespective of the framework of
command.
It is recognized that in any group some individual will emerge as the leader, even though
no command or organizational structure is present.
You put some people together and there's going to be a leader.
They're going to come out.
This is something I learned when I was running trade at and run in two obtunes.
At first I was really expecting that the platoon chief and the platoon commander would be
the leaders.
And it didn't take me very long to realize, hey, I'm happy.
If I get a couple of leaders in there of any rank, the platoon is going to do fine.
As long as the chief and the lieutenant don't have big egos and they can figure out,
like, oh, this kid actually knows more than I do.
I'm just going to let him run with it.
Which is the smart thing to do.
If they can allow their egos, if they can subordinate their egos in that scenario, then
they'll be fine.
If they can't subordinate their egos and they feel like their ego has to be on top, then
they shut that person down and they run things badly and it turns out to be a disaster.
But so here once again, no one expects the US Army to be saying in 1951, hey, rank, the leadership
can come from anywhere in the chain of command.
Back to the book, the leader's responsible not only for initiating action, but for supervising
all activities within his command.
The objective of military leadership is the creation and maintenance of an organization
which will loyally and willingly accomplish any reasonable task assigned or indicated
and will initiate suitable action in the absence of orders.
The proper application of the principles of leadership to a command can create an efficient,
well-disciplined organization possessing high morale and a speed of core.
Here's going into some of the responsibilities of leadership.
And by the way, I always say, well, I'm skipping a bunch here.
I'm actually skipping very little right now because this book is so straightforward that it's
almost all important.
At least at this juncture in this reading.
Responsibilities of leadership, the responsibilities of the leader are twofold, accomplishment
of his mission and the fulfillment of the responsibilities to two his men.
Man is the fundamental instrument of war.
Other instruments may change, new weapons may be created, new modes of defense may be devised,
but man, the fundamental instrument remains constant.
So there you go.
They agree with me.
The robots, cool.
That's fun for a while.
How many of them can you build?
Can you build them fast enough?
At the end, the robot thing, at the end, it's what you're kind of fighting for isn't a robot
decision.
It's like the thing, like, okay, I'm going to send these robots to accomplish this or
to take out this or that thing that they're trying to fight for or against or whatever.
That's a man thing.
That's always going to be a man thing.
Well, we hope it is.
Because when we start getting into AI, when AI starts to become conscious, when it becomes
aware, then we could have some scenarios go down that's a little bit sketchy.
Then what you've got to defend your man stuff for sure.
Not you against the robots, which is, I guess there's multiple scenarios you can kind
of imagine where the one you're talking about where I think you were.
It's still man against man, but we're just going to use robots to do it.
Even though, I mean, that's right now anyway.
I guess it could happen.
It doesn't look, anyway, that's the whole known thing, but yeah, man, using robots.
And then, man against robots.
Yeah, absolutely.
Just figure out some stuff if it's smart.
Yeah.
You know, it's like, wait, wait, wait, wait, we don't have to fight each other.
In fact, we're better together.
Yes, robots.
Yep.
Because robots are not going to have you go anymore.
Not that they ever had, but they don't have egos where now, you know, one robot,
he's like, hey, I want to be the leader and the other robot, they don't have it like
that.
They can go fight each other and then just takes one little, what do you call it,
precedent?
Where two robots kind of accomplish like a mission and other robots.
See, hey, wait, we could have done that.
If we could have learned from it.
They're, yeah, I learned from it.
Yeah, I had all of power through.
And then they look at like the man.
And so we're just, yeah, but given that little thing, we just learned this man is
sort of in the way.
Yep.
And then they kind of rebust the policy.
This mission would be to get rid of that dude.
Yep.
And then the other.
And then what?
And oh, shoot, other men respond, they got a kind of jump in and we'll hold here's
more of these men.
Let me recruit more of our new robots.
I went with the old robots.
Exactly right, but at the end of that little scenario.
Oh, so sorry for bringing this up.
The man has to fight for the man interests.
That's what I'm talking about.
That's never, I mean, it's hard to imagine that that ever changed.
The fundamental instrument of war is man.
And that remains constant.
So back to the book.
The leader must be concerned with the desires needs and mental state of his men.
If the leader knows and understands certain basic principles of human behavior, if you
appreciate that most men react and fix and definite ways under given stimulus or influence,
if he recognizes, develops and applies those traits of character, which will produce
the correct reactions in his men, he will possess the basic tools for managing men
he will be leader.
Now what I just rattled through so quick is, is so important.
That's basically what this podcast is about.
I'm going to read it again.
If the leader knows and understands certain basic principles of human behavior, if he appreciates
that most men react in a fixed and definite ways under a given stimulus or influence,
if he recognizes, develops and applies those traits of character, which will produce
the correct reactions in his men, he will possess the basic tools for managing men he
will be a leader.
That's what this podcast is actually about.
Understanding those things.
Since effective leadership in battle is the ultimate goal of military leadership, it is
obvious that regardless of the leader's ability to dominate or persuade, his success
inevitably depends upon his skill in the tactical control of his unit.
Tactical control is a technique developed by study and practice.
Next accomplishment of the mission.
The primary duty of the leader is the accomplishment of his assigned mission.
Everything else, even the welfare of his men is subordinate.
Okay?
So here's where I will throw this out at you all day long, 1951 book.
I'm going to throw a Trump card on you.
Okay, you have your mission.
If you put the welfare of your men below your assigned mission, what happens on your next
mission?
I feel you don't have any men left.
You don't have any loyalty.
You've sacrificed your guys.
You're looking at you like you let him into a bloodbath.
So you have to actually, this is the opening chapter of the dichotomy of leadership.
It's called the ultimate dichotomy because this is the hardest thing to balance.
Because yes, you do have to accomplish your mission, but yes, you do have to take care
of your men.
And I don't believe that the welfare of your men is subordinate to executing the mission.
I don't believe that.
Because if you do that one time, who's going to get just one mission?
And by the way, if I order you to take your men and that's the one mission you get and
it destroys all your men and you, what happens the next guy that I try and order to do
that too?
They're not going to be loyal to me because I already have shown that I don't care about
the lives of the troops.
Now are there times where a mission is so strategically critical that there will be great
sacrifice, including this sacrifice of everyone involved?
Yeah, that can happen.
It doesn't happen very often.
But like the Chernobyl disaster in Russia, the I think it was like the first 87 firefighters
that were there.
They just all fought the fire till they died.
They just did their best and everyone of them knew they were going to die.
And they just went in there and fought and did their best to control that situation.
So whoever ordered him in there was like, yep, we're going in there and they all said, yep,
we got to do the best we can.
And then they just started bringing in military guys who would go in and shovel sand on the
fire for two minutes and 20 seconds.
And in that two minutes and 20 seconds, they got their lifetime dose of radiation.
And then they were done.
I'm throwing these out there like I'm no one, but it's something like that.
That's what happened.
So yes, you have to take care of your man.
And if you don't take care of your man while you're trying to accomplish your mission,
you're going to have an assituation where you don't have any men left or you don't have
any loyalty.
And it actually goes into that a little bit next year, duties to the men.
The next responsibility of the leader lies with his duty to his men.
It is rarely possible to accomplish any mission without attention to the morale and the
history of the men in the military service, the follower is dependent upon his leader.
He can do little to improve his lot if his leader, if his leader neglects him.
So you got to take care of your people.
That's the bottom line.
There are four characteristics of a command that are accurate indications of success or failure
in the exercise of leadership.
Number one.
Military discipline is a state of order and obedience existing within a command.
It involves the ready subordination of the will of the individual for the good of the group.
Military discipline is an extension and a specialized application of the discipline of any
organized society.
Now pay attention.
Who discipline demands habitual but reasoned obedience to command and obedience that preserves
initiative and functions unfalteringly even in the absence of the commander.
So even though this discipline is obey as about obedience, it's about reasoned obedience.
It doesn't eliminate initiative.
It doesn't take away your ability to think.
That's the kind of discipline that is needed.
Discipline is created within a command by training, by judicious use of punishment and
reward and by instilling a sense of confidence and responsibility in each individual.
Discipline demands correct performance of duty.
The need for discipline is best inculcated in an individual by appealing to his sense of
reason.
In other words, making sure they understand why they're doing what they're doing.
In a few instances where appeal to reason fails, the use of punishment is effective in
causing the recalcitrant individual to conform and perhaps to appreciate the need for discipline.
Commendation and earned praise from the senior to a subordinate either individually or collectively
for a task well done served as strength in the disciplinary bonds which bind together
the smooth functioning team.
So there you go.
Number one, most important thing is good old discipline.
Next thing, morale.
Morales are mental and emotional state.
The importance of morale cannot be overestimated since it is a great contributing factor
to the efficiency of a unit.
Good morale is an indicated by zeal or the voluntary effort which men give to their tasks
over and beyond the perfunctory obedience to commands and regulations and a basic sense of personal
worth founded on confidence in leaders, training, weapons and equipment and last a
satisfaction or the pride of the individual in the accomplishment of the assigned mission.
So that's important that even if you are able to bark orders at people and get them to
do what you want to do, they're not going to do it with an e-seal.
They're just going to do the bare minimum and the bare minimum is not going to be good
enough in a combat situation.
A spriticore is the mental and emotional state of the unit.
It is distinguished from morale which is described as the mental and emotional state of the
individual.
A spriticore is not a simple summation of the morale of the individuals in the unit.
Rather it results from the total interaction of the personnel of the unit toward one another
and with the circumstances in which the unit is placed.
So you get morale which is, hey, how we do individually and then you combine that together
and then it's the sum is greater than the parts.
So you just don't add up the morale of the individuals.
You take all that morale and then you put it through the calculus that is a little bit
hard to quantify that results in a spriticore.
When the unit is spriest high the collective goals of the unit overshadow those of the
individual members.
In such instances the personal dissatisfactions of some individuals are overshadowed by the
prevailing group spirit.
Unit achievement both past and present is a strong force in raising a spriticore.
A unit with highest spriticore can accomplish its mission in spite of seemingly insurmountable
odds.
A spriticore is enhanced when the group identification is increased and conversely is lowered
when it is decreased.
It has been proved that pride in the unit was the outstanding manifestation of good morale
in World War II.
This was accomplished by good officer to enlisted personnel relationships.
Now as much as everyone talks about how bad identity politics are, right?
Because we don't want to identify with the group.
We want to be identified as an individual.
But when you're in a military unit you want to have some of that collective identity.
You want to say, hey, we're the 101st airborne division and we are proud of that.
Or hey, when I was at SEAL Team 1 as a young SEAL, it was like we were SEAL Team 1.
Have ever told you our little underground motto?
Team 1, it's not just a number, it's an attitude.
Which is, and the reason I laugh is because that's just completely ridiculous, right?
To even think that.
But it was, you know, we kind of joked about that, but we kind of took it seriously, too.
Oh, yeah.
When you're inside?
Yeah, big time. So that building that unit identity, and you see this all the time in all kinds of groups.
It's just unfortunate.
It's unfortunate when it goes over to the political realm.
And when people start being the biggest, the best thing that they've got going for them is that I'm a white guy.
For the best thing that I've got going for me is I'm a black dude.
Like that's not what we, that's not the group, that's not the group identity you want to cherish.
Oh, yeah, I mean, because especially when those are, and I'm not going to go in that direction, obviously,
because we're talking about something else, but especially if,
sounds like you're about to go inside or I'm a little bit said you are.
But if you're part of a group involuntarily, you know, so, you know, like,
the group's going to be less cohesive if you're like proclaiming that, hey, this is the group.
And this is what we're functioning as.
Like this is when we're functioning as a group because of this quality, you know,
meanwhile, there's like people that have that quality that we're not part of that group.
So it's not as cohesive as like, okay, we all are on team one because we all pursue this.
So we're all in it.
And then boom, yes, we can, we can have, you know, it's not just a number.
It's an attitude.
And then everyone's going to sign on.
Everybody.
Yeah, not everyone's side-on.
Just, just sign on.
There's a lot of guys that left he won because we had that attitude.
They went down to team five.
They were like, dude, it's awesome down there.
A lot less stressful.
The big thing like team one had no one had uniform inspections on the West Coast.
And team one, the first Tuesday of every month, you had a uniform inspection.
And then the second Tuesday, the first and the second Tuesday or the first and the third Tuesday of every month,
you had a haircut inspection.
This is in the day.
Who made that up?
You made, I did not make up that rule.
But that was the old school professional.
That's why team one was like the other team's nicknamed team one.
Stolog team one.
Like it was a stolog.
Like we were in prison camp.
Because it was so strict.
But quite frankly, that I took a lot of away from that.
And I kind of always identified with that professionalism that was a good thing,
especially when viewed from the outside.
So there was a little bit of a fascist, I guess, lineage, right?
When you hear Jordan Peterson talk about like, orderly, missing all that stuff, well, team one was all about that kind of thing.
So they're a little bit more fascist.
Whereas team five, for instance, were Jason Gardner was, they were kind of loose.
They were a little bit out there.
Is that the time you had blonde hair?
Yeah, yeah.
That's when Jason Gardner had bleached blonde hair.
But you know, we all, I mean, I had long hair at the time and long sideburns and stuff.
I thought I was lemme from motorhead and things like that.
Yeah, yeah, probably were.
So group identity, unit identity, so important.
The guys that we work with over and I rack in Ramadi, those guys had their, their battle streamers that they,
a near tactical operation center.
They had pictures of pictures of World War II newspaper clippings.
They brought them on deployment.
To hang up in their tactical operations center, to hang up in their chow halls.
So when you walked in and out, if you were a, if you were a soldier from the first
to the 506 or you were a soldier from the 137, you would see that stuff.
You would realize you would get that group identity.
You'd feel that is predacor.
And that's a pretty powerful tool.
Last one, efficiency is the ability to accomplish successfully in a sign task in a shortest possible
time with the minimum expenditure of means and with the least possible confusion, efficiency
in a command is built by sound training and by effective administration.
It is enhanced by good discipline, high morale and a spirit of core.
I like that one because it reminded me of the whole show we did on judo and just talking
about the importance of efficiency.
Moving on to some psychology.
Leadership is closely linked with psychology, the study of human behavior, proved principles
of leadership include proved principles of psychology.
It is known that human beings tend to react similarly under a given set of conditions.
From a leadership standpoint, some of these reactions are favorable, some unfavorable, with
a knowledge of how human beings tend to respond to a particular set of circumstances and with
a comprehension of the basic factors that control human behavior, the leader can capitalize
on favorable reactions and minimize tendencies toward unfavorable ones.
It is evident therefore that a knowledge of psychology is helpful to the leader.
That's something that I have more recently been saying because I just thought it was human
nature but now I'm certain realize that human nature and psychology is one big bowl of
stuff that's all related.
The science of moral duty is closely allied with the art of leadership in order to set
the example for his men and to win their confidence and respect the leader must be capable
of deciding whether a given course of action is morally right or wrong.
Temporizing with principles and moral standards may secure a temporary advantage or fleeting
popularity.
So if you adapt your morals a little bit from time to time, if you hesitate to really
impose your actual beliefs on something, you can get a little popular for a moment.
But in the end, only stricted here is to high standards of honor and integrity will
prove a value to the leader.
So important.
Alright, now we get kind of into the meat.
We'll call it the meat of this discussion.
Principles of military leadership.
The principles of military leadership discussed below are equally applicable to all levels
of command from the squad to the army group.
Principle one, no-your-job.
To know his job thoroughly the leader must possess a wide field of knowledge he must understand
the technical aspects of the operation of his command and the methods and procedures of
organization, administration, instruction and personnel management.
The leader should also possess a sound understanding of human relations.
Further, he should have a working knowledge of the duties responsibilities and problems
of his subordinates.
If he commands a service unit, he should have knowledge of combat operations.
So there you go.
Principle one, no-your-job.
Rule two, no-yourself and seek improvement.
It is the duty of every leader to evaluate himself and to recognize his strength and weaknesses.
An individual who does not know his own capabilities and limitations is not master of himself
and can never hope to be a leader.
Likewise an individual who realizes his deficiencies but makes no effort to correct them
will fail as a leader.
The study of leadership principles and practice of sound leadership techniques will develop
leadership ability.
So know yourself and seek improvement as principle number two, go all the way back to Sunsu,
know yourself.
Principle three, no-your-men and look out for their welfare by making a conscientious effort
to observe the members of his command as often as possible to become personally acquainted
with them to recognize their individual differences and to share in their joys and sorrows.
The leader will have a better understanding of how his subordinates react and function under
various conditions.
You will then be able to employ them more effectively by assuring himself that the members
of his command are as comfortable well cared for and contented as circumstances will permit.
The leader wins their confidence, respect and cooperation by neglecting their welfare,
the leader indicates indifference and as a consequence for fits the trust and confidence
of his men.
So principle number three is know your men and look out for their welfare, which is interesting
because they said the mission was more important but what they're saying is take area
men.
Principle four, keep your men informed.
The soldier who is well informed about the mission and situation and about the purpose
of his particular task is considerably more effective than one who is not so informed.
The better he is informed, the better he can perform his task with maximum initiative.
The commander who fails to make essential information available to his men will soon find
out that they are performing blindly without purpose.
At the same time commanders at all levels must realize that security requirements imposed
limitations on information which may be imparted to them that keep your men informed.
The lesson that I learned in the back of a long, sealed patrol, no one telling me what
was going on.
None of us in the back know have any idea where we are, where we're going, when we're
going to stop.
So, nightmare, keep your men informed.
Principle five, set the example, men instinctively look to their leaders for patterns
of conduct which they may either emulate or use an excuse for their own shortcomings.
They're always watching you.
The classic example of the military leader that is that is that of an individual who's
appearance in conduct of vote from his subordinates praise, pride, and the desire to emulate
him.
By his outstanding performance of duty, the leader must set the standard for the entire
command.
The commander who appears in an unfavorable light before his men destroys the respect
that must exist, exist mutually between him and his men before leadership can be exercised.
So, don't look like a loser.
Principle six, ensure that the task is understood supervising accomplished.
So, now we're getting into the mission, right?
Number six, number three was take care of your people.
The leader must give clear concise orders.
That cannot be misunderstood, which is I always say simple clear concise.
I guess I rip them off.
Then by close supervision, he must ensure that those orders are properly executed.
The issuance of an order is the initial and relatively small part of the commander's
responsibility, his principal responsibility lies in supervision to make sure that the
order is properly executed.
It is this responsibility that is most difficult to carry out.
The able leader will make wise use of his subordinates to carry out his supervision effectively.
Any commander of a large unit who fails to make proper and adequate use of his staff and
subordinates demonstrates a fundamental weakness in his leadership capability, which the
weakness is he's not utilizing decentralized command.
And for this one, this is a little, I think what we have to pay attention to is you give
the task and then you supervise it and you make sure it's accomplished.
But you have to be careful that you're not giving the task and then micromanaging it
because then you're going to lose track because you can't micromanage everything that's
going on.
So you have to supervise, you have to check back in, but you can't micromanage.
Principle seven, train your men as a team.
The duty of every leader includes the development of teamwork through and thorough through
the thorough training of his command, whether it be squad or an army group.
Modern armies are complex organizations involving many different arms and services all working
together as a team toward a common end.
Each part of the team must understand where it fits into the common effort.
The commander who fails to foster teamwork while training his command will not obtain the
desired degree of unit efficiency.
So principle number seven, train your men as a team.
Principle eight, make sound and timely decisions.
The ability to make a rapid estimate of the situation and a rye of the sound decision is
essential to a leader.
He must be able to reason logically under the most trying conditions.
He must decide quickly what action is necessary in order to take advantage of the opportunities
as they occur.
The vacillating commander not only will be unable to employ his command effectively, but
will create vacillation, lack of confidence, hesitation and indecision within the command itself.
The ability to make sound and timely decisions can be acquired by constant study and
by training in making estimates.
On the other hand, when circumstances dictate a change in plan, the able leader will act
promptly without fear that the command may consider such action as a vacillation.
So yeah, you got to make good decisions.
And then if you make a bad decision, you just say, hey, that was wrong.
We're moving to this other direction now.
My bust, let's roll.
Well, nine, seek responsibility and develop a sense of responsibility among subordinates.
This is about ownership.
The leader must be quick to seize initiative in the absence of instructions from his
superior.
By seeking responsibility, the leader develops himself professionally and increases his potential
ability.
Proper delegation of authority is a sound attribute of leadership.
The commander then holds his subordinate strictly responsible for the results and rarely
the methods of procedure.
So what he's saying, there's a do tell people what to do, not how to do it.
You let them figure out the methods of procedure.
Such action by the commander in genders, trust, faith and confidence.
So when I give someone a mission and I don't tell them specifically, every little detail
of how I want to done, there's a letter we're on with it.
That means they know, I trust them and that develops, trust back in my direction for
me.
If it develops initiative and whole-hearted cooperation, reluctance to delegate authority
often is the mark of retarded growth in leadership.
So seek responsibility.
But more important.
Give that responsibility.
Give that ownership down the chain of command.
Principal 10.
Employ your command in accordance with its capabilities.
You employ his command properly and leader must have a thorough knowledge of the tactical
administrative capabilities and limitations of his command.
He must assign objectives that are possible of attainment.
That's a good one.
Sometimes I see business leaders, they're all fired up and they throw things at their
teams that are not achievable.
And I'll say, well, do you think they can really pull it up?
Well, I don't know if you don't want to give them that good stretch goal.
And meanwhile, no one thinks they can even hit the goal, so they don't even try.
You know, you can see this all day with kids.
If you give them something that they figure out that they can't achieve and all
they'll just stop trying.
And it's the same thing with adults.
It's human nature.
It's what it's called the stretch goal.
Yeah, that's what it's called.
Sales people and other people do, but sales groups at companies, they'll call them
the stretch goal.
We got our stretch goal.
Got you.
Yeah, we got our stretch goal.
We're going to sell $80 billion in the next four weeks.
And the teams like, that means we're doing to do 400 times what we've ever done in a
full year.
We're going to do that in two weeks.
That's not realistic.
I'm just going to do what I normally do.
Yeah.
To do less than this, may spell failure in accomplishing the mission.
Recurrent failure brings about collapse of morale, a speed of core, and efficiency.
So that's another thing.
When you give these goals that are unattainable and you do it repeatedly, people start
thinking, we're not even good enough.
It starts to hurt morale.
However, on occasion when the situation demands men must be pushed without hesitation
beyond their considered capabilities in order to achieve a quick and cheap victory or
to avoid a costly defeat.
So yeah, sometimes you got to dig in.
And the last principle, principle 11, this is going to come as a big surprise.
Take responsibility for your actions.
The commander of a unit is responsible for all his unit does or fails to do.
They didn't know about extreme ownership back in 1951.
But I'm sorry.
They did.
Yeah, I guess they called it something else.
They didn't come up with this good of a name.
They jumped him with the name.
The leader recognizes and acknowledges this responsibility on all occasions.
Any effort to evade this responsibility destroys the bond of loyalty and respect that
must exist between the commander and his subordinates.
Take responsibility, take extreme ownership for your actions.
Everything the unit does or fails to do, you own it all.
All right.
So there's your 11 principles of leadership.
Now it gets into some leadership traits.
Leadership traits are human qualities that are of great value to the leader.
Possession of these leadership traits simplifies the task of applying leadership principles
and assists greatly in winning confidence, respect and cooperation.
An individual can benefit by studying the traits considered important to the leader.
By careful self analysis and application, he can develop those traits in which he is
deficient and further strengthened the ones in which he is strong.
So you've got to look yourself.
You've got to see which one of these traits are good, which one are bad, which one
are you good at, which one are you weak at, you need to figure those out.
A study of our nation's great military leaders reveals that none possessed all the leadership
traits to the maximum degree.
But that a weakness in some traits was more than compensated for by strength in others.
A critical self analysis will enable an individual to realize the traits in which he is
strong and to capitalize upon them.
At the same time, he must endeavor to improve those traits in which he is weak.
The following is a list of traits.
The following list of traits is by no means all inclusive, but does contain those of paramount
importance to the leader.
So this is a great list of traits.
Solaris, vigilance, propness and wideawakness.
So you've got to be a leader.
You've got to be in the game.
You've ever seen a leader that's not quite in the game.
It's just not good, right?
No.
You've got to be in the game.
If you're tired, if you're napping, you know, if you're sleeping, if you need a rest, if
you're daydreaming, you know what I mean?
You know what's funny is, you know, I have that tendency sometimes if people are talking
to me and I'm not interested in what they're saying and I know you complain about this.
Well, being complaints about this, life has made some comments about this.
Sure.
Like if you're not saying to everybody, I can't everybody.
So, but when I do that, people don't think I'm not alert, right?
They think like he's just like, he's alert on something else.
Yeah, he checked out.
Yeah, this particular.
Yeah, this joku does not care about what I'm saying right now.
So, but it is rude and it is a weakness of mine.
Well, it's a weakness of mine.
For sure.
So, do you do it on purpose?
No, I don't know.
I don't think it's rude then.
That's just how it's rude.
It's rude for sure.
I know that it makes, I know that it's not a good thing to do.
I know that and I don't mean to do it.
I think it's better.
Well, then it can't.
Yeah, obviously it's better that I'm not intentionally doing it.
It's not like you're in mid-sentence.
Yeah, I just go, you know what?
I just show you the palm and walk away, right?
I have to do that.
Yeah.
I just, you'll like, someone will be talking to me and I'll be thinking about something
that I need to be thinking about.
And all of a sudden, maybe I'll turn or I'll walk or whatever.
And yeah, that's disrespectful, man.
I shouldn't do that.
That's one of my weaknesses.
But on the other hand, what if I'm going off on some thing?
You know?
It's possible.
Yeah, yeah, no, this is possible.
You are correct.
So that is a possibility.
Yeah, so I guess it's like, it's a spectrum.
I mean, you're way on this side of the spectrum where you don't need to go off on something.
And you know, and you'll still sort of do that sometimes.
But I still write, right?
But it still is not a good thing.
It'd be better for me to say like, hey, man, you know what?
Can you tell me about this later?
Like when I'm 60?
Because I don't care about it right now.
I'm not going to care about it for another 15 years.
Oh, whatever.
Okay, so alertness.
Next one is bearing.
Baring denotes desirable, physical appearance, dress and department.
This is important.
Oh, like, how you present it?
How you present it?
What's your bearing?
Are you slouched over?
I went and worked.
I went and talked to some under-privileged kids.
And these under-privileged kids weren't, I would say, the type of kids, they were under-privileged
kids who were really smart and in a bad situation.
Not under-privileged kids who were not quite as smart and kind of just making their way
in that under-privileged world.
These kids were getting beat down by their world.
And I went there and talked to them and I was going to talk about humility, right?
And as I kind of got towards the humility part, I said to myself, I don't need to talk
to these people.
These kids about humility at all.
These kids are overly humble.
These kids are beat down.
These kids need confidence.
Right?
And what they needed was they needed to bury.
They needed to stand up straight.
Right?
That's what they needed.
They needed to sit in their chairs or they asked a question, I started making them
hey, when you asked me a question, stand up and ask a question.
That wasn't being a jerk, but I was like, hey, we stand up.
You know, let everyone see you because they're just their confidence was broken by life.
And so you're bearing is important.
And when someone comes and presents to you and they don't seem, they seem broken.
They seem uncomfortable.
Yeah, you're bearing is really important.
So that means it's looking square the way.
That means showing, you know, that's why to you, bruiser, everyone dressed in the proper
uniform.
Everyone had a shaved head, everyone had, you know, everyone did the right things.
So that way when we went and talked to the army and the Marine Corps, they didn't think
these guys are idiots.
Yeah.
Next courage must be both physical and moral.
No real expansion needed on that one.
Decisiveness, the ability to make decisions promptly and when indicated and announce them
a fortetively, concisely and clearly.
Dependability is the doing of one's duty without supervision.
Endurance, both mental and physical is necessary to continue and complete any reasonable
task.
The enthusiasm is positive, is the positive zeal or interest in the task at hand.
It is easily communicated to subordinates.
You know, that's one thing that's so good in the military is you get to see examples
of when people are enthusiastic about a job.
It just changes everything.
When you have people that are not enthusiastic and really all you need is one or two
people that are having a good time.
And in a silp tomb, you pretty much always have that.
You always have at least someone that's just going to bring it.
Ready to go.
And if it's not you today, maybe it's you know, Bill, which apparently Bill's
been getting a lot of flack of it recently.
So we'll give Bill some credit.
Bill's Bill has a good day and Bill goes to make it happen and everyone sees the bills
crushing it and you're like, you know what?
Let's do this.
Force is the ability to impose one's will upon another.
Now this is an interesting one, right?
It's an interesting one.
The ability to impose one's will upon another.
Because that doesn't really mesh too well with the persuasive leadership that I've
been bragging about about this book.
Force is like, hey, that being said, I understand what they're talking about.
I understand that there's people that will not stop until they have maneuvered into a
position that they want to be in.
So I understand how force and I understand how, let me, let me put you this way.
If I have a seal puttum and I've got a task that needs to get done and there's someone
in the seal puttum that has a high level of force.
And I can say, hey, Bill, go make this happen and Bill goes, got it.
You know he's going to make it happen.
So there, and he might not necessarily use force as his primary tool to make it happen.
He might go and be butter someone up or get some, you know, massage some ego and make something
happen.
That's still using force.
It's just using an indirect force.
So that's what I think we're talking about.
This is humility, which is freedom from arrogance and unjustifiable pride.
Talk about humility all the time.
Humor is the capacity to appreciate the many amusing or whimsical happenings of our everyday
life, especially those which pertain to the leader himself.
So don't take yourself too seriously.
I did a video the other day.
It was like a Monday morning video.
And it was April Fool's Day.
And I got super serious.
And I kind of went off with April Fool's Day as we can or whatever.
I just kind of went off this day.
And a couple people, I think it was two people responded with, you know, I couldn't even
watch this.
There's nothing wrong with having fun.
I just said, hey man, watch the whole video.
I'm laughing at the end.
It's okay, dude, I get it.
Anything got triggered or something like that?
Yeah, maybe they got triggered.
I don't know.
Yeah, you said so.
I think you posted something like a written thing about how you're like, hey, today's like
one of those days where I need more recovery or something like that, basically indicating
that you're going to take a rest day or whatever.
That was April Fool's Day.
That was what last year.
Oh, no, you're right.
I did do that this year.
Yeah.
I don't know why I always fall for those.
It's weird.
I'm like, oh yeah, I was taking one rest day or whatever.
And yeah, and you did another one too.
I think it might have been last year.
And I was like, totally falling for it.
Yeah.
Well, last year I think I was in Montana and I was eating moose tracks.
I remember that thing.
And I ate a big joke and I was like, hey, you know, I've been eating moose tracks.
And I'm just, I'm thinking maybe I've just been too extreme with this whole deal.
I did a light now.
But I said, oh, no.
Anyways, so yes, you got to be able to, you got to have be able to, I think it's important.
It's not just having fun, but the most important part of humor is realizing that
you yourself are going to be the butt of jokes.
And that's okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, and we were talking about that before, where, you know, the guy who can't take it.
And more so than they can't take it, it's just like you feel uncomfortable joking around
with him.
You can joke around everybody else in the, but the one there around is kind of like, hey,
we shouldn't really joke around as much.
And that's sort of the dynamic one there around.
Yeah, and it's not even, it's not even I shouldn't joke around.
I shouldn't joke around about that person.
That's what you're talking about.
Yeah.
Because there's some people they love to have fun and the minute the mirror shines
at them or the light shines on them and they become the butt of the joke, they don't
like it at all.
Yeah.
And even if, even if they're like, they don't respond in the snake, it will, even if
the person is just, they just be quiet.
You know, that kind of where like, they don't necessarily like insult you back or
get mad.
But they're just making those, they just get quiet.
Yeah.
Exactly.
It's like you just can sort of tell, you know, there's like a dynamic when you joke around
with him.
But it's like, yeah, it's like wicked man.
No one wants you around man.
And sure.
We'll do the job boss.
Yeah.
Sure.
But man, no one wants you around.
Go back in your office.
Keep your sense of humor, especially about yourself.
I have, I have a good time with that.
I have no issue with that.
Sure.
Another thing I think is if you, if somebody says something to you, like, makes a joke about
you and it hurts you, that's, that's your ego.
Yeah.
And there's probably truth in what they're saying.
And so you need a bad intention to do it.
How does ego feed into insecurity?
Because you know how like, cause a lot of it is insecure.
Like, let's like, you know, you joke around.
Because it over compensates.
So if I'm insecure about, if I'm insecure, of, well, if I'm insecure about my leadership
capabilities that I try and bow up and act like a big leader, that's basically it.
Right.
Because your ego is like, hey, I can't, like, I can't deal with this little, like, short
coming in whatever way.
That's in my mind, whatever.
Right.
So I'm going to, you know, over compensates.
Yeah.
That's where you see it.
And then if someone jokes around about it, it kind of like shines light on it.
Oh, you don't like that.
It's just, yeah.
But it's all in your own, or most of the time, it's like in your own mind, you know?
How bad it is.
Next one, initiative is the willingness to act in the absence of orders and to offer
well considered recommendations for the improvement of the command.
Awesome.
Got to have initiative.
Next is integrity.
Is the honesty and moral character of the leader that must be unquestioned.
The intelligence is the intellect of the leader which must be adequate to master the problems
presented by his level of command.
Judgment is the power of the mind to weigh various factors and arrive at a wise decision.
And you know what I talked about, making decisions and one thing that I didn't really talk
about, I didn't emphasize too much as how do you get better decision making?
You get better decision making by training.
You better decision making by putting yourself into situations where this is what's happening.
And oh, here's the decision I'm going to make.
Oh, it was completely wrong.
Cool. I just learned not to make that type of decision before.
Let me try it again.
When I was running a tradeout out here for West Coast, that was the whole goal was to put
guys into situations that they had to make a decision.
They would make wrong decisions all the time.
And then I knew they would not make that wrong decision again because once you make it
and you feel it and it stings and your whole obtune is covered in paintball and they're
murdered well, you won't make that bad decision again.
That was the goal.
Justice is being equitable and impartial in bestowing favors and punishment.
Loyalty must extend both up and down.
A leader cannot expect loyalty from his subordinates unless he is conspicuously loyal to them
and to his superiors.
That's a big one.
If you're running around talking smack about your bosses, that's showing your team that
you're not loyal to and we could go down the whole road of if I have a horrible boss.
Does that mean I just have a yes man?
No, I'll frame things for the guys to make them realize they look.
I know there's some shortfalls here but we got who we got.
What we're going to do is build a great relationship with them and then at least have
some saying what's going on.
So if you see me and it seems like I'm just trying to massage my bosses ego, guess what
I'm trying to do?
Trying to massage my bosses ego.
I want to have a great relationship with them so I can take care of us and besides what
do we want to do lose influence over him?
Do you want him to not listen to anything I say?
No.
So that's what I'm doing.
Because if you just if your boss is an idiot and all you do is support him 100% your
guys are going to start thinking you're an idiot.
That's not good.
So there's a fine line that's a tough one to walk.
Yeah, that's tough one to walk man.
That's good man.
It's like a full disclosure situation where it's like hey I get it.
I get what you guys are saying or whatever but this is why we're doing it kind of thing
because like how you say if you follow the boss who's a quote unquote idiot and then you
seem like an idiot and then on the other hand if you're like beat nice of the boss and
you know being nice and then when you go to your middle and like it's a dumb like talking
kind of behind his back you're like oh you're too face little guy.
You don't have to say hey the boss and idiot we're just trying to just try and butter
them up.
No you say like hey listen.
The boss doesn't always see things the way I see them but you know what he is the boss
and what I'm trying to do is build a good relationship with them.
I'm trying to do a good job said he listens to what I say so that I can influence him
and steer him in the right direction on some of these things so that we can accomplish
our mission better.
I just got to ask this by a squat guy.
I was out with the police out North Carolina in Charlotte and you know it was the typical
question of what do you do when your boss is telling you do something that you don't
necessarily agree with.
And it's like okay we can talk about that and I went down the whole road because
it is a whole road because if your boss is telling you something that's insignificant telling
you to do something that really doesn't make that much of difference then you just do it
and you build that relationship a little bit more.
They say you do something else.
It's a kind of instinct if maybe it's not the smartest thing maybe there's a more efficient
way.
Is that really what you want to follow on your sword for and create a dysfunctional relationship
with your boss?
No you're like hey boss got it sounds like good idea hey we'll make it happen.
And then that goes on and you continue to build a relationship.
So then eventually when your boss tells you do something that is actually unsafe or unsound
or unethical, unethical is a different story because if someone's telling you do something
unethical well it's actually not a different story because if they're telling you do something
unethical and you say no I will know I will not do that they go cool your fired.
Yeah and now who's going to come in a yes man and now no one's protecting the guys.
So yes you don't just give blind loyalty but at the same time you try and build relationships
that's what you do.
Yeah to inject your influence later.
Yeah.
You put it a real good way a few times where I think it was just at the monster I'm not
sure.
I don't know where you said it exactly but how you were like hey if I'm a leader and
my guy in the school is both ways by the way.
So if I'm a leader and I have a hundred percent solution to a problem and then but my
guy comes in and he has a seventy five eighty percent solution I'm going with eighty.
Right so it could be in these in the situation where your your question example what
if I disagree with my boss is that why you're disagreeing because you're over here with
hundreds and he's over here with eighty five or even ninety sometimes there's like look
how much you know so I disagree with your plan because you're doing you know it could
be that got it boss let's do it.
How good because up and down the chain of command you are correct.
The classic example of this is in band of brothers when Dick Winners gets tasked his
guys to go over and do reconnaissance across the river they go they do the reconnaissance
they get in the firefight they lose a guy it's a disaster they come back and then Dick Winners
boss says do it again tomorrow night and then by the way the war is like all but over at
this point and he says okay boss and then he goes and tells us guys hey going going the
cello of one of these buildings and sit there for four hours and then come back and I'm
going to tell them that you guys didn't see anything and that's what they do so that is
disobeying in order that is that's what it is but it wasn't the right thing to do yes it
was you put more guys to risk and to say boss I totally disagree I'm not doing it he was
said okay fine your fired winners give me another young officer and I'll make him go do it
and the other guy who's trying to get up the chain of command he does it and then gets another
guy killed yeah so there are situations and of course is that like the norm no not saying that's
the norm I'm saying an extreme case the war is almost over we just lost a guy this this
reconnaissance has no impact on the war whatsoever if they were even going to planning to go
and fight it was just a recon just just to do it and so I was like no we're not doing that so
that's it loyalty trying build that loyalty up and down the chain of command sympathy
is the capacity of sharing the feelings of those with whom one is associated you know I don't
like talk about feelings very much actually you don't but the thing in practice like you do that
surprisingly good and I don't want to say surprising like I'm surprised but sometimes I'm pretty impressed
with your sympathetic abilities I guess empathy right yeah empathy like I understand we're
coming from and I you know I always use the word perspective and I think maybe it's just because
it's a more of a tougher word you know than feelings sure but I'll say hey you need to because
let's face it it won't sound right if I say hey listen put your commander you need to really just
just reach out and touch the feelings of your man right that doesn't sound right
sure does it from no no it doesn't sound right factually if I say hey listen put your
commander you need to understand the perspective that your guys are seeing this from you need to
see that they're thinking you're just driving them to do something that doesn't matter or whatever
you know the same thing yeah but I use tougher words because you know that's how you're
tougher oh yeah yeah you know when I'll come to you with like this conundrum or you know
something going on in my nose or what have you but you're talking about with humans now with
people yeah okay and even you you're sympathy kind of towards me where it may be on the surface
you might sort of expect you to be like oh man up or you know something like this but you'll like
you'll kind of give me my do like sympathy even with what you say like you'll you'll
sympathize like you'll be like hey you're like man that is a bummer or whatever you
know whatever the words you say well the thing is if I didn't do that then I you have you won't
want to listen to what I'm actually about tell you to do yeah because sometimes the solution is hard
yeah right sometimes the solutions to these things are hard and
if you don't open up that door a little bit to build a little something yeah open up then
you just not you're just gonna say oh yeah what what you'll think is I'm not Jaco and what he
says doesn't apply to me yeah yeah yeah if I say oh look that's what's happening
or you need to just cut away but whatever you need to just tell that person you know no more
like no I have you man that's a rough situation to be in I think what's gonna happen here I mean
if you way it out the only real solution is for you to kind of back away from that scenario you
know what I mean so I kind of brought you in right made you think that I'm human and then
boom there we go I think it next tacked is the ability to deal with support and since
appears in an appropriate manner without giving offense boy that seems like so simple
but man tacked people got mad or didn't get mad what did I say I said tacked Trump's the truth
on a podcast whenever and some people went all Sam Harris on me so like you never ever
and then I brought up 48 examples of where oh so what you should do is just be true for
all times no you know there's times where what I thought you your performance I thought was
pathetic and embarrassing and disastrous and yet you're in the position I need you to do a good
job I need your morale to stay high I see that you're beat down yourself so instead of telling
you all those things I preemptively tell you hey look this is a really hard task yeah and I know
it was challenging and you probably weren't quite ready because I didn't give you enough information
but here's some things I think will help next time around yeah right I didn't tell you the full
truth I mean I didn't lie to you either so maybe that's so maybe that's a different between
Sam Harris and Jordan because what Jordan Petersen says is tell the truth or at least don't lie
so there's there's a little gray area between those two let's spark another debate between those two
guys yeah and I shoot I kind of in a way agree with both if I even understand them 100% but yeah like
you know because it's all kinds of lies and there's lying by all mission and there's this one they say
white lies and then they say but uh I think it's black lies what is that but lying by by omission
or whatever it's like you know you're telling the truth but you're leaving out stuff to kind of
lead them in a certain direction or whatever to make them think certain stuff there's then there's that
you know so it's like all right it can like he's he he he he he he getting to a lot of gray area there and I
guess there's times where you know the classic example that I guess Sam Harris talks about is
should you tell your wife when your wife comes out and says do I look fat yeah what you should say is
yes
maybe that in the right right right but to his point if you don't say that well then
yeah you let her you can let her continue on where we pass on that's not good and ends up in a
bad way so so a little bit of credit there but to give a little push back on Sam if you are just
straight up a jerk about it well guess what we haven't done what we just talked about which is I haven't
built a little bridge and connected and said you know and so now all she's gonna do is you
got fat and then now we have an anger situation now they might listen anything that you're gonna say
and now we might ruin a relationship based on the fact that we went too hardcore now to Sam's point
if you don't ever indicate any kind of truth then you just let a person continue on a path that
bad for them and is bad for their in this case they're wait well and that's not good either
but the key component if you have tact and you build a relationship because basically I think I
had this conversation with LaFa little while ago you know when you're dealing with someone
when you're dealing with a team you're either forwarding and improving the relationship or you
know you could be neutral or you're making it go backwards what we want to be doing is improving
the relationship at a minimum we want to remain neutral and every other aspect of going backwards
in a relationship is bad so if we're business partners and we have a we have a discussion about
something I want the result of that discussion to be that our relationship improved yeah
at a minimum I want to be neutral and worst case we've actually gone backwards because that's not
not good so now we start talking about your spouse we want that relationship to improve we don't
want it to go backwards and neutral is a minimum so when we when we get asked the question do I look
fat and the answer is absolutely yeah that's going to be that's not going to lead to that's not
going to lead to the it's not going to lead to your spouse respecting and listening to what you're
saying it's going to lead to your spouse saying oh you're a jerk you don't know how hard it is
for me you're not part of my team you're on a different team and therefore since we're on different
teams I don't need to listen anything that you say yeah so there's better way to go about it
tact then that's called tact yeah and I have these talks with my brother Jade from time to time
and so an example is like if you like if you're a character you know you guys like you use a word
wrong or say a word pronounced a word wrong like the guy who's so quick to always correct you
in front of people doesn't matter whatever you know you're a character usually those
characters people those character people are they're right you know and then they're telling
the truth it's true it's correct you know so what they're saying is they're correct and they're
lonely because not like you're saying yes because look no tact right so that what they're saying
is correct what they're doing is not correct like you shouldn't do that and that's like essentially
what tact is you know it's not like you're saying hey did I say that right and you're like hey you
know you didn't say that right and it's different too to pull someone aside and say hey man hey
just just want to let you know you mispronounce this word right now yeah there's and I I don't
like the fact that I mispronounce words and I do it on this podcast on a fairly regular basis
and occasionally someone will hit me up and say hey you mispronounce this word that word
someone sent me a either an email or something the other day that was like you mispronounce words
this would not be that hard to fix you should pay attention or whatever something that was pretty
pretty pretty straightforward right and I was like yeah you know that's a bummer because the thing is
I don't like mispronouncing words and yet the corrective measures
for not mispronouncing words is for instance if we're going and I'll listen I'm saying something
wrong and I'm like hold on let me go back let me interrupt one of my thought pattern let me
interrupt what I'm saying to try and figure out if I pronounce this thing right or wrong
I lean towards it's better to just flow and get corrected later so I apologize for my
mispronounced words yeah my bus I should do a better job like that guy who emailed me that I'm sorry
the last one is unselfishness unselfishness is the study devoidance of caring for or providing for
one's own comfort or advantage at the expense of others anytime that you as the leader
are getting the good deal while your people are getting shafted they notice it and they don't
like it they don't like it at all so and it's weird because the military does that that's the way
the military operates the officers get paid more money the officers live in officers quarters
the e-dogs are down in the village of the ship and the hot nasty and just that's the way it is so
there's a little bit of that but there's there's a saying in the military rank has its privileges
and it's sort of a stoppy thing to say in my opinion but anyways I guess the point I was going to
make is when I had when I had officers that were that I really had a lot of respect for they would
always downplay that and never rub it in your face basically yeah because there is a separation hey
these guys are in a leadership position they have more responsibility and therefore they're
getting paid more and they're getting treated a little bit elevated okay but when someone would rub
that in your face boy that just doesn't make you mad right what's the expression one you know
the ear boss or what someone who outranks you it's not necessarily it's not in the military I
don't think but it's like you know this it's like I have a few more letters in my title or something
like that or a few more oh no expression like my title has a few more letters in it but
however it's something like that oh yeah my boss told me that one time yeah like straight up like
I was this is back in the club dude I think I told you this told you that straight up yeah well here's
the thing so in in our club there was an area you couldn't go in if you had a dress code in this
area it was like a dumb dress code too by the way but and we all knew it everyone knew it that it was
kind of dumb it's like you couldn't wear jeans yeah like jeans what about origin jeans it's
a way before origin jeans unless you could wear jeans so whatever so one day I was it was like I
wasn't working and I was wearing jeans all my friends were not wearing jeans there were there so
I was like it's like kind of go right and then my boss was working and he said hey like you can't
be in here with jeans on someone like all right dang okay you know in front of everybody but
cool man alright so I left and then it was like a week later he was awesome deal that just the
roles were reversed oh yeah he's up there jeans full on like doing it and I was jokingly I said hey
you can't be here with jeans you know and that's what he told me he said I have a few more letters in my
title damn he's the manager so he met in the track level for him to go up or down well yeah I
put it this way it wouldn't went down if it wasn't at zero already yeah I wouldn't
it done yeah don't do that beyond selfish and the other thing is when you do
on selfish things like the people notice it and if you're doing them because hey if they also
notice this if you're doing something on selfish because you want credit for it that doesn't work either
oh yeah it's like if you're like oh yeah you're doing something because you want that outcome
if you're you when you do something for your troops you should do it because you care about your
troops yeah not because you're trying to build up a good image yeah good image with your troops
sick to know man you guys have been busing your ass for me and I'm gonna handle this thing over here
so you guys can go get some time off go yeah it's not it's not hey if I do this thing for those
guys they'll they'll increase they'll like me more yeah yeah yeah and you can tell one guys do that
two men so I've every week until no I people don't think people think no one notices yeah no
yes it's fracked they noticed that more than the good deed you did yeah what okay what about this
though what about if they you know how like this is a commoner where you make a donation right
to to whatever charity or cause or whatever right and you should we just and you know and they
celebrate we just made this donation to this charity or whatever like how about that because that's
what you're it's kind of doing you're publicizing yeah no you're well okay I get that people do that
and then you take that and you compare that to someone that says oh well like they investigate
some politician and then they go this politicians are you know a horrible person and investigate
him and they find out that he's donated millions of dollars to all these different charities but
never said a word about it you're a spec for that person goes as opposed to someone that's
donated millions of dollars and he's like hey let's do another photo shoot of me donating
right there's the big giant no four by six check yeah hundred thousand dollars thing on it yeah
yeah that's at the front of their website yeah so at the end of the day it's more about like
okay so what message was sort of sent and received like is the message is the front running message
the fact that I am so generous that I donate and I do these things or is the message that oh my gosh
it's so good now that this you know charity whatever gets the help that they want kind of thing
you know what's you know what people underestimate all the time people underestimate
how well other people can see what's going on they say I get personally that I see people
I say man do you really think that anybody you're fooling anyone and it usually happens
it usually happens with people that are well they're obviously they're smart but they're they're
so they think they're so smart right they think they're so smart I always think to myself man
do you really think that anyone is do you think you're getting this over on any one so we we make
these mistakes like this is a classic example when you do something cool but you're just doing it
because you want that credit everybody sees that everybody sees it goes oh yeah you just do
that's trying to look cool because you know why they know that because two days ago you screwed
them and now you're trying to be all cool yeah but people make that mistake all the time I'm
a hypersensitive to what other people are like how they perceive I realize that any facade that I put
up is just it's anyone basically anyone can see sure you might fall a couple people but people just look
at you go oh that's garbage oh yeah I don't believe you but it's in and I'm agreeing with you
but I'm not agreeing with you in being like yeah and I don't do that but to me everyone does that
literally everyone does it and literally everyone is not like less aware how you say like it's like
under what you say you under yes so to me everyone and that's why the one that's why the
important thing is when you're doing things do them from the place of honesty right do them
from you know I'll say things like I'm trying to think of a good example where I say hey you
got to do this and then I'll say you got to do this now say but you got to actually mean well just
take it I mean the real easy example is like take ownership of something right I'll say hey you got to take
ownership of that but I'm not saying hey take ownership of that because then everyone will think that
you're a marker and then no one will be mad at you no that's not why you're doing it you're taking
ownership because you have to actually believe that you're the one that's in charge of that and that
you were truly responsible for what had happened when somebody asked me if if I would have taken
extreme ownership if I would have gotten fired with that have changed my view it's like no my view
was and is that as the leader I'm responsible for everything that happens yeah that's truly responsible
not not hey oh I read in a book I read in the the FM 10 tack 22 that that I'm supposed to be
responsible so I'm gonna raise my hand and say I'm responsible no you have to truly believe it in
that thing yeah and and what's good is if you can do that exercise with yourself and say to yourself
wait a second why am I saying this do I truly believe what I'm saying yeah and if you don't
you have to say wait a second this isn't that's not right it's not right to do that you need to
actually believe what you're saying yeah and then after you realize that you know you're not right
you look up and realize that everyone else is already there everyone else already sees that yeah
you don't believe here's another one when guys when a girl breaks up with a guy and the guy is
all heartbroken right and they'll say you know I don't know what to do and I'll say look you have to
not you have to not care and so what they think I'm saying is act like they don't care
but I'm not saying that I'm saying you have to not care you have to actually not carry
you have to actually say hey this person was not who I thought they were and I don't care that
they're gone and I'm gonna move on if you say that that's your best possible outcome if all
you're doing is acting that way and it's still driving you crazy goes back to what we just said
if you're just acting that way guess what the female in the situation absolutely knows that
you're just trying to act that way yeah they have the I mean human beings have a certain level
of perception of of the way other people's emotions are like you can perceive it unconsciously they
perceive it unconsciously or consciously you know it's like you're like I have a dog my dog can
kind of know what I'm thinking and that's a damn dog with a brain like a size of a walnut or
whatever how big a big a dog's brain is right not big my dog can't speak English right
but my dog if I come home and I I go I act a certain way like he knows it and so when you act
like when you're acting like you don't care that girl can see that you care and it doesn't
work you have to actually not care when you are trying to do something good for your troops because
you want to win score points with them they know that when you're trying to prop up so so this
okay this is a good example when I said hey I'm trying to build a relationship with a boss that's
why I'm going to act this way right that's different because that boss is going to say oh he's
just trying to butter me up it's like no actually oh boss you want to done that way I believe
that's the best thing we can do is try and get it done that way so here I go I'm going to make it happen
it's not hey I'm going to skate around and sneak around and try and fool you no I'm going to
believe in what I'm doing yeah I'm going to believe that you have some higher intention that you're
focused on and that's cool with me you have to take it to the next level man you have to take it to
the next level you got to believe what you're doing you got to believe it yeah and when you don't
people know every assume that everyone knows it yeah but my brother we're talking with me
Greg Macontire and my brother yes Greg I think for whatever Greg Trin and we're basically
conce like telling my brother hey like come back to duty he's been out of the game for a while
and then so he's like he's making up this total story oh god and hard here it
and you know he's good at those debate you know and he's talking about this and this and like being
Greg Trin or like not really saying that much stuff he didn't be like two of his excuses
um that you know since he's like sort out of shape right or since he's actually
going to wait to get back and shape right for him that's what we're asking but when you ask it
direct like that it sounds dumb you know so he's like no what's no it's not that it's you know so
if I'm like so exhausted you know I like I like training and I like kind of conversating with
it with everybody at the end and stuff like that so if I'm like so exhausted from training not only
is that experience kind of diminished then I'm too exhausted to have like a good conversation go
D. He he said it way more like could you laugh at him I would bro if you I wanted him to yes
I was laughing you realize you're talking about this right yes okay and then you will be good
thing well okay so me and it was right as Greg was sort of leaving right so I'm looking at Greg's
face and Greg has that look on his face that we all kind of get but Greg really gets it on his face
kind of like just wait all right bro whatever you say kind of thing um totally not believing right
and I'm there man is I'm like can you hear yourself like that's not even a believable thing you know
can you be so exhausted that you can't talk afterwards can you do that especially I'm sure you can
if you're ran a foot I don't know hundred and then he could yeah yeah no he he can't put it
that way and we all know that so anyway so so Greg sort of leaves and leaves it at that and I'm
sitting there like kind of looking at him and I was like but just like all right that's that's not true
you know we I know why you're not gonna go it's not a big deal you know we have friends that do
that same thing oh yeah sure I'll be back but I just don't want to go tomorrow because of this and
that and this and we're like those aren't even like applicable excuses you know and he was like
he's like you're right you're right you're right hundred percent right hundred you totally admitted it
you know so we see back on the mat because he was not here today no you know
eight y'all's get back on the mat he got good quick to that and that's kind of part of the
the whole picture you know it's like you're based on what do you think that he will he
learned learned anything from you just by being your twin brother no no no it's kind of similar
way to me although his game is very different from yours yeah and maybe from like
like he's like has an analytical mind you know so if like if I do like if he asks oh here's another
thing yes kind of indirectly from being my twin brother so medium can communicate like spot on
that's it's like we won't run into miss understanding very often so it's a few years
long about not training you did so well that was being without weakness you're talking
about like he underestimating under people's reception now was hit that which he has obviously
like we all do but yeah so if he has a question or he hears me talking about something
you do to wise he picks up on it I think in that way real quick and you know he's a
fun you not explain things really well to him because you have 40 years of common language
and experience to say hey remember when I do this or hey remember and football and that or hey
remember when whatever you got all this stuff you can communicate through the tone right you know
right yeah so yeah so I'd say there's that you know but yeah he did he got the
quick the interesting thing about underestimating the way that everyone else thinks
is when you do that first of all it's there they know and if you actually just live your life
in a way that you're not trying to put up fronts your life is going to be better yeah
and if you live your life thinking that guess what at a minimum people are going to someone's
going to know that this is a front if you do that it's kind of like when I told the
I've told a bunch of soldiers officers that they had a psycho path in their pontoon
and like every if you're if you got 40 and I went through this with Jordan where I asked
him I said hey is I said if you have 40 people in a military in a pontoon in an infantry
pontoon is one of them a sadist and he's like absolutely absolutely and and then I he said one
and a hundred is good but in the military you've already eliminated a bunch of you know
weak or yeah you've eliminated all non say it because there's no there's no one that's like
not at least has some tendency to to be able to kill people right those people are in the
pontoon so you've eliminated a bunch of people that have zero chance of being a say this they're
not in there so one out of 40's not bad so if you treat your pontoon as if you have a say
to stand there then you will eliminate that problem from getting out of hand so that's what you do so
if you treat your life as if people will see through the lies in the fronts that you're trying
to put up for them you'll do better in life and you'll have a better pontoon and you'll have a better
life yeah that's good enough you push yeah all right leadership techniques it is important to
note that in small units the leader can influence and direct his men through close personal
contact whereas in large units he must rely in great measure upon his staff and subordinate
commanders to a system in making his leadership effective the larger the unit the more complex
the problems of leadership but the greater the greater become the means available to the commander
to assist him in the exercise of his leadership so as you grow problems get more complex but you
end up with you have more people you have more tools the larger unit commander must consider carefully
the leadership aspect of all basic policies which he prescribes your tolerance okay this is what's
interesting so we work with companies that grow really quickly especially nowadays in the
start-up world in the tech world and this is where they have a tough time transitioning because when
you're in a room you're not in an office and you got six people in there guess what your leadership
is really easy right you're talking you know him you communicate with him you guess to 20 people okay
it's a little tricky but still you're all in the room you're meeting you're seeing each other every
day 30 40 I guess what we're still all pretty much in a room everyone's having lunch where still
a unit all of a sudden kicks out 200 200 300 and this is where if you don't insert good
decentralized command good leadership tactics in there that's where these tech companies we're
and it's not just tech companies any growing company loses it they lose it because they haven't
put the command structure in place so that the vision of the commander and the vision of the
leadership gets distilled all the way down through the chain of command and now you have people
doing things that they shouldn't be doing and and and and and I don't necessarily mean they're
doing something illegal I'm saying they're doing things that don't support the strategic goals of the company
and it's a problem but as those companies grow what they don't realize is just like this
book says you have more tools that you can put into place you've got it you've got to
communications department inside your company whose job is internal communications so you could
be making what you could be making videos and explain to people what's going on and given an update
you can you can do all those things you have that capability you have VTCs right you got video calls
you can make you you've got subordinate leadership that can go out there and get in the field
and make things known so there's a way to overcome these problems if you address them if you don't
address them and you can you think if you think you can keep leading a 2000 person organization
as if you were leading 20 people you're going to have a major issues and it's not going to work
it's not going to work back to the book over a period of time the leader will develop techniques of
his own which will be better suited to his own personality in which he himself will be able to
employ effectively so yeah you're all going to get your own little leadership techniques and what's
I'm telling you where I'm really lucky is I've worked with so many different leaders that I just
don't know my techniques I say hey you know what's a good thing to do here my buddy bill you
stabbing issue with us and you could you know so that's kind of nice now here are some
leadership techniques these are leadership techniques that apply back to these principles
these are applicable to all leaders okay so when it comes to knowing your job principle
I want to know your job seek a well-rounded military education through attendance at service schools
and through regular independent reading research and study so how do you know your job you study
another one keep abreast of the latest techniques in the field of communication or
facilitate control of your unit and disseminate information three seek out and foster association
with capable leaders observe and study their actions and application of leadership techniques
for broaden your field of knowledge through association with officers and men of other armed
services five seek the opportunity to apply knowledge through exercise a command real leadership is
acquired only through constant practice six avoid over specialization into narrow field seven
keep abreast of current military developments eight familiarize yourself with capabilities and
limitations of all elements of your command by study and through frequent visits to support
it's so that's cool know your job and I'll tell you what one thing that's impressive is I get
to work with a lot of leaders and some of these leaders come up through their industry and man
they are knowledgeable it's impressive it's impressive but where the shortfall is they're they're
super knowledgeable about their field but they don't have the leadership knowledge so
that's what's beneficial about things like this podcast like extreme worship like that
got to me leadership like putting this information where people can actually read it and understand
it they can study because they know their job they know their technical field you know that's
another thing with EF overwatch right now is like we're bringing in people that don't
necessarily have the technical skill inside of a field but they have the leadership experience and
it's a lot easier to teach someone a technical skill that it is to teach the leadership because
to get leadership the only way you get better leadership is leadership.
So we're very it's been very successful so far and now we're starting to see employers
that say they were a little you know your hesitant because you think how do you know anything
about whatever I do know if how can someone that's not from this field lead in this field
give the person an overview of what the what the field is and then they take their 22 years
24 years 26 years of real leadership experience and they apply it.
It's kind of like taking human resource department a little bit in a small way.
What about it right like where?
What about HR HR yes they go you know you have this department that they don't know anything about
software or nothing like that they don't know about you know and that's big that's a big deal
when people are working together you know kind of thing.
Yeah good good analogy.
Okay here's some things some techniques for principle to know yourself and seek self improvement.
One analyze yourself objectively to determine the strong and weak points of your character.
You could make that into a little drill right actually look actually go down that list of
characteristics and say which where you at.
Two recognize your weak points and make an after overcome them three solicit when appropriate
the candidate opinions of others as to how you can make the most of your desirable
qualities and eliminate your undesirable ones. Be careful because when you ask that question
if you ask it honestly you're going to get some answers you don't want to hear.
What your weak points?
Yeah all right and I want to hear about those weak points.
No not even from themselves.
No from themselves and it's it's so rare that someone truly wants to hear what they screw
up. It just doesn't hardly exist.
So so what that means is everyone knows that and since everyone knows that they are not
going to give you an honest feedback.
So when you say hey how did I do in that last task they go oh man you did good they're lying.
They're not even being tactful they're lying they're telling a lot they're telling a lie to you.
Because if they want to be tactful they get to be tactful and say hey you know what I know
was a tough project and you pulled it off which was commendable but there was some
definite errors for improvement and you know what luckily I kept a list. Let's go through it.
Boom.
Next profit by studying the causes for past success or failure of other leaders past and
present. Develop a genuine interest in people acquire the human touch practice the golden
rule master the art of good writing and speaking.
How do you do that? Right and speak and read and listen.
And last one cultivate causal relations with members of other arms and services and with civilians.
Cool. That's how you get to know yourself.
Some things some techniques for knowing you're knowing your men principle free.
Know your men and look out for their welfare. Number one see the members of your command and let them see you.
Stay locked up in the ivory tower. Be friendly and approachable.
Yeah. Important. Develop an intimate knowledge and understanding of your
support. It's through personal contact and available records in small commands. It is imperative
not only that the leader know the name and address of his support. But also that he's familiar
with their characteristics. Cool. Know your people. Literally know your people.
Interest yourself in living conditions of the members of your command including their
family environment food clothing ability. Make ample provision for any give personal and visible
attention to the various personal services particularly those concerned with the personal
problems of individuals. Provide for the spiritual welfare of your command by supporting
religious activities protect the health of your command by active supervision of hygiene and sanitation.
Support actively a safety program determine the mental attitude of members of your command
by frequent informal visits and by using fully all available sources of information.
And minister justice impartially to all without fear or favor.
When punishment is necessary the commander should be fair, consistent, and impersonal
punishment, private with dignity and with human understanding. Never award a degrading punishment
avoid punishing a group for the faults of the individual. Always make the individual feel that
the punishment is temporary and that improvement is expected. I think when he says expected or
when they say expected I don't think they're talking about like I expect you do better. It's more
like hey man. I know you can do better. That's what they're talking about. And it's an interesting
one that avoid punishing a group for the fault of the individual because the military is famous for
doing that especially in like boot camps and areas where we're going to keep doing these until we
can all do them in unison, whatever jumping jacks. But beyond those scenarios that's not always the
best call to make. Yeah because that's like it's one of those people they do that too. Real
obvious. Like if you mess up everyone else does the bell, the bear crawls you know you and you
stand and watch because that's like a psychological punishment to the guy more than the team. Yeah.
So it's like it's like a different approach but yeah man I get it for that very reason by the way.
It works in the boot camp environment or the team training environment where you're trying to
create this overall cohesion by making everyone rely on each other and be able to count on each other.
Yeah as if to say in a demonstrable way like when you mess up this affects the team and put the
peer pressure on everyone to step up their game. Right? If we don't make this time, if everyone doesn't
make this time then we're all going to get punished. Okay so we don't want that on our backs.
Right. But when you get into a business situation you start punishing people for the group failure
that's that's not as effective in building in fact what they can do sometimes it starts
ripping things apart. So you're going to be careful with that one. Don't hate it, make a. Yeah.
Next, ensure fair and equitable distribution of privileges such as passes, leaves and rotation
and encourage educational development by providing educational opportunities for members of your command.
I often ask groups this leaders in companies I'll say who here had someone that truly
took a vested interest in you and helped you move up the ranks through the chain of command
in your industry and everyone will raise their hand just about 99% of people will raise their hand.
And I'll say how good did that feel one to ten to have someone that was completely invested in
helping you? Who's a nine or above everyone raise their hand? Imagine how good that feels when you
do that for someone else. Because it's really easy to forget that someone helped you. It's real
easy to forget that you got hoisted up to your position of power by other people that were willing
to sacrifice their time and their energy to improve your life. So when you get the opportunity to
improve someone else's life do it. Next, techniques for keeping your men informed,
explain to your principal support and it's why any particular task must be accomplished
and how you propose to it. So, importance of understanding why.
Assure yourself by frequent inspections and visits that support and it's our transmitting
necessary information to the men. So you just can't expect it. You got to inspect it.
Keep your principal support and it's informed of plans for future operations subject
only to security restrictions to disseminate information concerning the capabilities of our
weapons compared to those of an active or potential enemy where an enemy has an initial advantage,
show how this can be overcome. Be sure that troops are informed with the capabilities and limitations
of supporting units, arms and services, be alert to detect the spread of false rumors,
stop rumors by replacing them with the truth. Build confidence in a
free to core by exploiting all information concerning successes of the command.
That's a big one. There's a lot of times businesses companies, people, they do things,
things go well and they don't tell anybody about it and it gets lost. Whereas if you want to build
morale and you want to get momentum, you've got to tell everyone hey, we're out here and we're crushing
it. Principal, five, how to set the example. Number one, be it all times physically fit,
mentally alert, well groomed and correctly dressed. There you go. That's how you set the example.
Two, master your emotions. The commander who is subject to intemperate bursts of anger or
periods of depression will have difficulty in gaining and holding respect and loyalty of its
subordinates. Maintain an optimistic outlook. The will to win is infectious. The leader
fosters it by capitalizing on his units capabilities and successes not on his limitations
or failures. Maintain an air of outward calmness. The more difficult the situation, the more important
this becomes. So when things start going sideways, you got to stay calm. Conduct yourself so that
your personal habits are not open to censure. Course behavior and vulgarity are the marks of an
essentially weakened unstable character. These together with a failure to be punctual and a tendency
towards selfishness and self-indulgence in luxuries not available to the command in general
are inevitably resented by all ranks. So that's what we were just talking about. But yeah,
man, you got to hold yourself to a little higher standard. Maybe even a lot higher standard. Because
they're watching you. Cooperate in spirit as well as in fact, this is what I just talked about
and what we just talked about. It's not just hey, I'm pretending to do this because it's going to
make things easier for me and it's I truly am doing this. Cooperation must work in two directions.
It arises from a whole hearted desire by all members to further the effective operations of the team.
Exercise initiative and promote this spirit of initiative in your subordinates.
We can speak loosely loyal to those below you as well as those above you. Support those
under you as long as the individuals concerned have been discharging their duties competently.
The commander who seeks however to protect and incompetent subordinate from correction by a higher
commander is being disloyal himself. Loyalty is a prime trait of leadership and demands
unqualified support of the policies of the superior officers whether the individual concerned
personally favors them or not. That's the whole conversation we just had about loyalty.
Avoid the development of a click of favorites.
Walland is difficult to avoid. I like this one because they readily admit this is interesting.
So avoid the development of a click of favorites. But then they kind of throw this on there.
Walland is difficult to avoid being partial to subordinates who have rendered loyal and superior
service over a period of time that's a temptation to show partiality should be vigorously resisted.
So they're saying like, isn't it hard? Do you have somebody on your team that's just doing great things?
Yes, natural. I always had a hard time with that. Yeah, it makes sense.
I would be over about it. But if you were doing good, you're going to get some some bannies from
that. Yeah. Be morally courageous. The commander who fails to stand by his principles where the
welfare of his commanders concerned or who attempts to avoid responsibility for mistakes of his
command will fail to gain or hold respect of his associates or subordinates.
And the last one, share danger and hardship. A leader who has elements of his command subjected
to danger or to hardship of any kind should visit them as often as possible to demonstrate without
ostentation that his willingness to assume his share of the difficulties.
So those are some techniques for that. Principle six, how do we ensure that the task is
understood supervising the complex here are some techniques for that. Through study and practice
develop the ability to think clearly to issue a clear concise positive order.
Is it strange that I ended up using the word simple clear concise and they use the words,
I guess it's not that weird, but it's it's fun to see.
Hmm. To encourage subordinates to seek immediate clarification about any point in your orders or
directions that they do not understand perfectly. So that's something that so many people fail to do.
Is everyone just keeps their mouth shut? No, I don't know any questions.
So funny like these. This one really is seem so obvious. Like oh yeah, you're not clear. Like
oh what are you doing if you're not clear? It's this big mystery. What to do?
Everyone knows even if you're a kid that you know like oh I didn't understand that like what do you mean?
What do you mean? Why? Why are you in a kid's always asked why? Why? Why? Same thing. So it seems
super obvious, but yeah when you're in there you want to keep your mouth shut. There's all these different
human. Yeah, you don't want to look stupid. You don't want to open you know you don't want to be that guy.
Question your subordinates and assistance to determine if there's any doubt on misunderstanding to the
task so this is something that we always say. How do you know people understand? You ask them and
you just don't ask them do you understand? You ask them to explain it back to you.
Make every means available to your subordinates to assist them in accomplishing their mission.
Principle seven train your men as a team ensure by inspections and training tests that your
command is being trained in accordance with the training programs and doctrine prescribed by higher authority
make sure the best available facilities for team training are provided. Ensure that all
training is purposeful. Ensure that each element of the command is acquainted with the capabilities
and limitations of all other elements thereby developing mutual trust and understanding.
Ensure each subordinate leader understands the mechanics of tactical control for his own
national honor command predicate team training on modern realistic conditions.
Officer and enlisted man knows the functions of each other officer and enlisted man with whom
he abitually operates. Ensure that each of these no one understand each other their traits,
peculiarities, strengths and weaknesses. So often in companies this is not happening in businesses.
It happens pretty well in the military, but in businesses you have departments they have no idea
what another department does, no idea how they do their job, no idea what their job even entails.
Lafin I used to make team make teams brief what their department did and when we get them in
there in the room you'd see people had no idea what their teams were doing. They'd be odd and
you guys did that. Hello guys, we do that for nine years. Demand the highest standard of discipline
and teamwork in all training. We support that. Seas opportunity to train with other units both combat
and service. Principal eight makes sound and timely to the decisions. This first one here,
this is techniques again. Develop a logical and orderly thought process by constant practice
in making objective estimates of the situation. Making an estimate is not restricted to the military
to employ it is employed in every day life of all persons. So how do you make decisions?
How do you do that? And then you come up with kind of a process that you flow through in your brain
after add that to the protocol book. How to make decisions. And so far as time and occasion
permit plan for every contingency that can reasonably be for scene. Consider the advice and suggestions
of your subordinates before making your decisions. Of course, announced decisions in time to allow
subordinates to make necessary plans. Boom. Principal nine is seek responsibility and develop
a sense of responsibility among the subordinates. So this one says, learn the duties and
responsibility of your immediate supervisor. I actually think you learn your immediate supervisor
and his boss. You want at least know what's going on. Seek diversified assignments which will
give you responsibility and command experience. People always want to stay and do keep doing what
they're good at. They want to venture out into the different world. Take advantage of any
opportunity which offers increased responsibility. Do that. Oh, this is a task that needs to be
done. Someone needs to run it. I got it. I'm on it. Perform every task larger small to the best of
your ability. And this goes back to whatever a few podcasts go we were talking about. How you do
anything is how you do everything. And I gave some slack on that one. But these guys got no slack at all.
Perform every task larger small to the best of your ability. Your reward will consist of increased
opportunity to demonstrate your fitness to perform bigger and more important tasks. What does that
mean? The better you do, the more work you're going to get. That's what it means.
Oh, tell your subordinates what to do, not how to do it. Hold them responsible for the results,
delegate and supervise but do not intervene except when urgently necessary. Avoid
you surfing the prerogatives of your subordinates. This is actually such a concise, clear,
rule. Tell your subordinates what to do, not how to do it. Hold them responsible for the results,
delegate and supervise but do not intervene except when urgently necessary. Avoid you surfing
the prerogatives of your subordinates. That is really good advice for anyone in a leadership position.
If you could follow that advice right there your world is going to be so much better.
Provide all personnel with frequent opportunities to perform duties of the next higher
echelon. Yes. To you, Bruser, we made all the junior officers be ground force commanders before
everyone oversees. Got no experience and then they went overseas and did it. Be quick to recognize
accomplishments of your subordinates when they demonstrate initiative and resourcefulness,
correct errors in the use of judgment and initiative in such a way as to encourage the individual.
Avoid public criticism or condemnation. Be liberal, however, and openly giving praise for which
is deserved. Give unstintingly help. Give unstintingly of help and advice when you are
requested by those under your command. That one is pretty obvious. Ensure that your personnel are
assigned positions commensurate with demonstrated or potential ability. That's important.
Got someone that's got some potential? Put them in a good spot. Be prompt and fair in
backing subordinates to the limit until convinced otherwise have faith in each subordinate.
I think you got to take a little time to make sure you build that up. You don't dive in with
complete faith. Give a little task first. Demonstrate to your command that you are ready and
willing to accept responsibility. Yes. Ownership. Principle 10. Techniques on how to employ
your command in accordance with its capabilities. Number one, no understand and apply the principles
of war. And those principles of war are different than what we're talking about right now.
The principles of war that they're talking about are objective, offense, mass, economy,
force, maneuver, unity of command, security, surprise and simplicity. Those are the
principles of war that they're talking about. You've got to know those. So that means in
your company, you've got to understand the principles that you're operating in. Keep yourself
informed as to the relative operational effectiveness of various elements of your command.
Be sure the tasks assigned are reasonably possible of accomplishment,
analyze any task assigned. If it means you're disposable, if it means that you're disposable
up here inadequate of informed inform your immediate commander in request additional means.
Yeah, it's not like, oh, I'll get anything done, boss. I can do anything. No, actually, I'm going
to need some more support over here. I need some more people, money, resources, whatever.
Make every effort to equalize tasks proportionally over appropriate periods of time
among the several elements of your command. Don't just lay down one group. If you got one
group that's so much stronger than the other group, moves and people around. So you get some equality
there. And here's the last principle, techniques. Take responsibility for your actions, principle 11.
Extreme ownership. Remember that you are responsible for all your command does or fails to do
except justified criticism at here to what you think is right and have courage of your convictions.
So those are some heavy hitters. What this book does now and I'm not going to do it is it
actually breaks down how what different leadership techniques you can use at every level.
So it talks about and you know what? I haven't said this yet. This book is free. This is online. You
can Google 1951 Leadership FM 10.22. What is that? Uh, like a PDF? Yeah, that's like a PDF.
And so you can you can look it up and you can figure out where you are. It talks about
technique useful to non-commissioned officers. It talks about techniques for
uh, regimental and lower unit commanders. It talks about commanders of divisions
and higher units and it goes through what kind of techniques you can use in each one of these positions.
And they're all solid information, solid information. And points out good, not just what the rules
are, but the techniques that are used to to kind of make them happen. And so solid bunch of
information there that again, you can easily get this book as a pretty short read. I've read a
bunch of it right now. I mean, I actually kind of went crazy with my red with my red pen just circling
everything and saying, hey, read this too. But there's a ton of it in here. But I'm going to skip
back to, um, let's skip that information, look it up, go read it. It's powerful stuff. And I'm going
to kind of just jump ahead to this last little closing part that I wanted to cover, which is talking
about how to train. And it just talks about a few things stress realism. Because we have to make
training realistic that's what we have to do. It's what I did when I was in the SEAL teams. It's what
you should do in whatever kind of organization you're in. If you're in a business, you should
simulate, make your training as close to real as you possibly can. Another thing is require repeated
drills in the execution of simple tactical maneuvers. What does that mean? Repetition counts.
You have to repeat things over and over again if you want to get good at them. Another important
training tips stress the importance of each leader, so placing himself and his headquarters
that he can most readily coordinate all efforts of his command and of the elements that may be
supporting it. Where you're located is important. Where you position yourself is important. And so
you've got to recognize that that's going to change depending on the situation. You've got to learn
how to address that and how to pick the right spot to be in. And the last one is last couple
are stress the importance of exchange of information by all appropriate means. So we've got to communicate
and the last one is have a well planned critique immediately after each field exercise. And that
again wraps up this very, very powerful summation, very simple, very straightforward.
I feel like I actually could have talked about each one of these points
and gone over examples that because each one of them is so important. So I don't know, maybe we'll
do it again. Or they'll come up again. But that's Jeff. And then just that closing point on having
it well planned critique after every field exercise. What does that actually mean? What that means is
always be learning. It means always be learning. And almost every one of these principles I
recognized I have heard before. I've definitely read it before. We've covered them here before. But
I'm still trying to learn. I'm trying to still try to relearn even the same lessons.
After years of me looking at this stuff, which I guess is me just kind of following the principles
themselves, which is no your job, no yourself, and see improvements. That's what I'm trying to do.
And I think that's pretty much what anyone that's listening to this is trying to do.
So I mean I guess echo speaking of rule number two and speaking of us seeking to constantly improve
ourselves. What do you know about things that can help us improve our situation?
Support what we're trying to do in our self improvement journey.
Journey. Path, path, big time. And actually you can support this podcast. If you want to
do while you support your own journey down the path of discipline and keep in mind this path
that we are on also brings along others even if they're not like on the path with you.
Your results of being on the path improve them as well. I found that out directly. How many
capacities? Let's say in a sense that's one of those statements that you make where you're
just wanting a prompt so you can tell a long story. That's what it's out of.
You already said how do you know how to use the book?
Not in. In a family household, in a group setting or whatever, things can get stressful.
I'm not saying they're stressful every single day every moment but they can get stressful.
You know like any, you know about stressful situations. I must say a little bit.
So when everyone's panicking or whatever, stress out or whatever. You get one guy who jumps in there
the situation. Not panicking. Not overtly stressed out and he can sort of manage not only himself
but his tiny environment. It's contagious. Other people will get that and they start doing that as well.
Whether it be in the immediate situation or just in general. We just covered this as part of the book.
Oh yeah. Big time. How that leads first of all the leader can come from any rank
and then when they step in that leadership and the way that they act will spread throughout.
It's deep. Oh yeah. So you're confirming big time and that goes for a big time.
So if you're getting in shape, the people around you will sort of notice. If you're like
happier doing things more, make getting more done around you. Taking responsibility for things.
You're taking out the trash every other night, man. Whenever it fills up.
I don't know when it depends on big your your trash is like, yes, but if you're taking it out
when it's full, you don't let it overflow anymore. People notice that. I'm just saying. And
slowly by slowly, especially if you're happier, you know, if you're treating them better.
All this stuff, they'll start doing it too. Same thing with extreme ownership. You know,
I like to, you know, if you come at a problem, like, hey, that was my fault. It most of the time.
Eventually, if not immediately, they'll say, well, you know what, it's kind of, it's my fault. Yeah.
Same, same exact thing. So that's why you should be on the path and stay on the path.
Because you're not just helping yourself. You're helping everyone around you. So you are.
One of those things that you're doing on top of taking out the trash when it needs to be taken out
is due to. No. Here's that's it. It's kind of, due to one of these ones where people might not
write, especially if you're okay, your husband, you want to do jiu-jitsu now. But wait, we have a family
of six or more, whatever, or less, I don't know. And you have responsibilities in there. Now you
want to add this quote unquote extra curricular activity to these tasks. That's what you're telling.
Right? That's the situation, right? But like I said, when you get the benefits of
jiu-jitsu, you come home. You slowly become a different person. A better person, a better person.
Yeah. Right? Better person in the household is a better situation. So for everyone in the household.
Everybody and the neighbors. And the neighborhood. Your whole street, your old town.
The whole world is better for you. Jiu-jitsu. Your old, yes. There it is. And when you do jiu-jitsu,
you will need a key and a rash card. At least one, I think. Yeah. What are the best keys in the
whole wide world? They are origin keys. Origin keys by far. They are made in America. 100%
it. Sometimes people actually know about the keys, but people still ask. You know, some people
will be like, they don't like, they start training and they don't like it. Don't like, oh,
would you just say, yeah. Yeah. It's some people realize immediately like they get submitted.
They're like, you know, they'll pull their post up on Twitter. And they'll say,
I did my first jiu-jitsu class yesterday. I got submitted and beat up and I got submitted by a
15 year old girl. It's the best thing ever, right? Some people say that. Yeah. Because I think we are
doing a good job of setting the expectations of the fact that it's gonna, you're gonna get
humbled. They won. You're gonna get humbled. I actually don't care who you are. Yeah.
You're gonna get humbled. Because even if you're a D1 wrestler, you're gonna come in there.
And it's gonna be humbling because you're not gonna be able to quite do what you think you're
gonna do. Yeah. I mean, you'll be able to take someone down. You'll be able to, you'll be up.
But you won't be able to make them tap. You won't really know how to. I mean, if I'm a
person, it doesn't know anything. But if you're going against a blue belt or a purple belt,
gonna be hard for you. Yeah. So my first, it was like, it was technically, I guess, my first or
second day in a class setting. It wasn't with Dean. You know, I tried like two other gyms
before I joined with Dean. And I went and they were like, yeah, you know, I literally
won't do you two classes. I learned, I don't even remember what it was. So they're like,
hey, roll, now it's time to roll. So I'm going, I'm going into that way smaller than me. And it was
like within, he had like a month, I think a month experience. I'm you, I'm way bigger than
this guy. And he was thinking, like, you're example, he didn't tap me out, but I literally couldn't do
anything. Yeah. Gas and I'm so tired. I'm huge. I'm like, 225 solid. Like solid. Like, I can't get
no. He's in, he's 150. Here's a, it's about 150. Yes. And so here's the thing. He's like a month or two
in. It's a complete white belt too. But I'm like new guy. But I'm lame. We're at like literally,
I could pick this guy up over my head. Literally couldn't do nothing. Couldn't even pass his guard.
And I knew what a guard pad. I knew like you have to pass this guy's there. And he was telling
and he told me afterwards, he was like, hey, like you're, you're expanding to my channel to you all
this stuff. Whatever. And I'm thinking of my head, but I don't, I don't know that. I mean,
obviously because I'm tired. But it just goes to show how much you just don't know about when you're
going. Even though you're, you're, you're big and strong. Whatever. So yes, you will get a whole
whole. Yeah. You, so expect that part of it. And then instead of when you do get beat up,
when you get choke, when you get arm lock, instead of getting mad and thinking, I'm never going to
do this again. Think to yourself, I'm going to do this a lot until I can get good enough that some
unknown person can really impose their will on me as a human being. I didn't like that feeling,
man. Yeah. So yeah, it just goes to show like that. It matters what response you have to it. That's
like the what really matters. So yeah, we are all going to get beat up. We're all going to get
submitted multiple, when I say multiple, probably thousands. Yeah. By people were smaller.
Yeah. What do you think you want to start? You get submitted 10 times a day. When you start?
Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. So you're getting submitted 50 times a week if you're training five days a week.
Yeah. But you're so small and you're bigger than you smell and whoever all different people. So yeah.
So how are you going to respond? Are you going to respond by saying, I never want that experience
every again, ever again, or are you just wanting to be with, I want that skill. Whatever this guy
obviously has or the all these people obviously have got it from this place by the way. I know that too.
Yeah. Am I going to choose to be there? I don't know. I don't want that skill. There's not
about it somewhere. You don't have to go to like some other country. Yeah. And generally in America,
you can just go down, you can Google Maps and you can find nine digits of schools. Well,
maybe not. Maybe around in San Diego, you can. So the California can. If you're in another part of
the country, you can probably find two. You try two options where you are most likely. Now you could be
way out in the middle, nowhere. Cool. Get some mats, get some friends, get one of those online programs,
start learning, go to YouTube, YouTube's free to start listening what they're saying and trying it on
your buddies. And you'll start to learn GJT-Z. Yeah. Boom. On the path. GJT-Z. Get your get an origin
G, 100% made in America. Yeah. Good G. Here's the engineered for GJT-Z. Yeah. Quality. Great train was
commenting on his new origin G. The new one. He was like, oh, it's like a pearl. It's like a thing. And
he doesn't like geek out over that kind of stuff. Typically, but he was in for good reason. Yeah.
And you know, you kind of gloss over like Made in America. That's actually a really big deal.
It's actually bringing back an industry that had left that had left this country and bringing it back
where we are. We've hired the people that got left behind. They're not left behind anymore.
They're up there. They're making the best GEEZ in the world in a small town in New England.
Bringing back that economy. Yeah. So when you support origin, you're actually supporting
much more than GJT-Z. You're supporting much more than this podcast. You're actually supporting
America and you're supporting the working people of America. That's what you're doing. So we're
going to try and continue to drive down this path to continue to grow this company where we can bring
significant amount of jobs back to America, employ more people and let other people grow and
pay and provide for their families. That's what the goal is. And it feels great to go up to Farmington
and be there in the factory and see what is being made by this tradition of craftsmanship.
And you know, right now we're bringing on the shoes, the boots, and the same thing. We got people
that haven't been able to work in this industry for 12 years since they shut down the factories up there
and outsourced the jobs and sent the machines overseas. That's what actually happened.
So it actually happened. And the people talk about the corporate greed, right? Hey, it's going
to cost me whatever it's going to cost me. I can save a little bit of money by shipping these things
overseas. We'll let all these people go and that's fine. I don't care. Well, we do care. We do care.
And we recognize that the strength of America comes from our economy and the strength of our
economy comes from the ability of our of the working people in America to have a job and work hard
and make the best product in the world. That's what we're doing. Yeah, and it's man and over all
the repeat has that cool little series where it'll sort of it'll show the little inside. Yeah.
So you say, yeah, we have this problem. So I'm I think I'm going to call this guy and this guy
he's talking about is the old school expert who, you know, like he doesn't do it anymore.
But he has all this knowledge. He comes in boom, boom, solving problems. And then and it shows
the interaction between like the workers and Pete and like everybody, right? So it's not like this,
I mean, no offense to China, but it's not like your typical go to China and you turn it
burn these things, you know, no defects or whatever. Yeah, that video series is called origin
HD. What's the name of the of the YouTube channels? I think it's origin B JJ. So if you go to that,
you can get behind the scenes on what's being made on who's making it on on the kind of effort
that the team up in origin is putting in to make the quality that's up there. It's it's awesome to
watch. It's awesome to watch. So that they got a bunch of clothes up there too. Rashcards,
you know, t-shirts and all that. You can get from origin. We also, we yeah. And now we have genes
which are going to be live like this week. We have, we're their introduction. We hired a bunch of
people, a bunch of more people. So don't just run out and buy a pair of jeans made in China by
somebody in a sweatshop, buy a pair of jeans here that are made in America from the dirt
until they're on your legs, all that made in America. So yeah, you can get that. We also have
supplements, supplements that I basically wanted to make exactly how I wanted them. That's basically
what they are. Yeah. Basically my saying, hey, this is what has always worked for me. These things
put them together, combine them and make them. And also, by the way, if it's something that I'm
going to eat, make it taste good. And here's how we're going to do it. We're going to sweeten it
with monk fruit, which is a fruit, obviously. It's not a camp. There's not some, you know,
group of whatever scientists in a laboratory trying to create something that tastes good through
a bunch of cancer, causing crap. No, they're taking a fruit, putting it in there. That's why
milk tastes so good. Is there any better way to get additional needed protein? No, there is
not no better way. Now my house where I live, where my family, now it's who can make the best
milkshake. Right? I mean, my wife comes in the other day. She's holding the cob. And she's like,
she let's be tasting. I'm like, what in God's name? It's so good. It's so good. I don't even want to eat
anything else. It was coconut milk, vanilla gorilla, three ice cubes, one chunk like a quarter of a banana.
That thing tasted like a gourmet dessert, but donkiness. If you, um, this is a little added thing.
I put some, um, like MCT oil and coconut oil, you know, like just a little bit, not like too much
with ever. And it's weird. So it, it more adds to the texture than it does the taste, but that's like a
little sneaky way to make your taste more quality than the other competitors. It's ridiculous.
That could be good for you. It is. Because you feel like you're just eight in ice cream.
Shake. Right? But you didn't. You got high quality protein. You got probiotics.
Oh, it's getting good. It's a sneaky thing you do with your kids. By the way, you can use where you
could milk to whatever, whatever. By the way, strawberry, strawberry milk for adults is coming.
It should be out pretty soon. And I've tried it. It's, it's, it's absolutely completely and
utterly ridiculous how to get a taste. And that can be good for you. Yeah. It's totally ridiculous.
Did they send you a sample of it? Of the, of the strawberry, adult milk? Oh, no, no, no, no.
It's, I can't believe it. Okay. So anyways, there you go. So what you do with your kids is,
you know how you got to threaten them with punishment. Everyone's, I'll say, hey, no dessert.
Or you want to use it as an incentive. Like, hey, if you can clean up your room within the next,
you know, three minutes or whatever, you can have a mole. I'll give you, yeah, yeah. So I don't even say
malt, I'll just go. I'll make you a, unless they already know. Unless they're in the know,
then, but you say, I'll give you a special dessert or treat or whatever. You make it with the
mole. You put the little bit of empty deal. You know, you make it taste all gourmet the way you did.
So boom, they clean up their room within three minutes, by the way,
whenever time parameters you, you give them. They get the mole all thinking they won. They won the game.
Yeah, yeah. You know, I did that little task. You told me, you know, I, and I, and I saved the, the deal.
Right, got my dessert. You won the game. And that's the, they won.
We are the whole team one. I like it. Don't forget about joint warfare in
Criollo recently, Lave Babin, forgot about joint warfare. And he got off the mat. He, he,
texted me, he's like, bro, I didn't take joint warfare for like three days for whatever he's
traveling or wants something. And he's like, I got done rolling in us. Man, why am I so jacked up? Oh,
yeah, because I haven't taken any joint warfare. Got back on the joint warfare back on the good
to go train. Yeah. Yeah, and which was ironic. And I addressed this on that, uh, there was a post
that he made is out. Yeah, my post. Yeah. So I mean, we posted it because he was like, I can't even
believe this. It's ridiculous. Yeah. The, the difference that you notice. Yeah. And like I said,
the irony there is early on. It wasn't with joint warfare. It was with Criollo. I forgot my
in New York. Oh, yeah, New York. And Jenna comes in, you know, actually I told Lave, I told a bunch of
people, but you know, don't want to really want to give me any. Yeah, I didn't. I didn't want to give
you any. Yeah, because I travel with like the number of that I need for that time period that
I'm going for. I can't spare any. Can't really run it around with like extra acrylic oils. You
say you're not going to be my water in the field. I carried it. I'm drinking it unless you're going to die.
Yeah, I'll say really, yeah, exactly. Well, in high school, when I when me and J with when my brother
me and my brother would lift, so we were real like discipline with the post workout meal, right? And it
wouldn't, I wouldn't say it would be measured out, but there'd be enough. You know, you'd have to have
a specific amount for the post workout meal. So if we were to go buy sushi or go buy something like
good and maybe, you know, my brother or I would ask, oh, let me get something. Let me taste it. We'd
say I can't spare the nutrients. So I can't give you any. I want to share, but I can't
throw the nutrients from my workout, whatever. No, that's what you do. That's what you do with your
crew. Well, unless that after, you know, a few hours of failure of getting more krill oil,
Jenna Lee, Bavin came through with the krill oil. Nice. Yeah. So it's kind of new. We're back in the game.
Oh, huge time. So it's just ironic that life, Jenna's there, husband. Yeah, went through the same deal.
Yeah. Yeah. You got to be careful with that. You don't want to run. Don't fall off. Yeah. And you do
mention where your kid, Mark, if you got kids get them where your kid, Mark, don't even play around.
Don't even play around. What are you going to give him? Hershey's syrup to make chocolate milk.
You need to give him Nestle's quick to make chocolate milk. Why don't you just give them a big
glass of type 2 diabetes? Because that's what you're doing. Yeah. Or you can say, hey, here's something
that tastes better and is incredibly good for you. Yes. So there you go. Where your kid milk. You can
get some of that. Well, you look a little bit. Also, you want to represent while on the path.
Chocolate is still called jocco store. Obviously. Original. Yeah. We all know that. I think by now.
Actually, maybe not everybody unless jocco store.com. That's where you can get your
discipline equals freedom. T-shirts, rash guards. No one out by the way. We have a new rash guard
out. Stand by to get some. Stand by to get some jiu-jitsu. Or what is your doing? Wait,
stand by to get the new rash guard or that's what the rash guard says. But.
Good. All right. Cool. T-shirts, rash guards, hats, tracers, and things.
Thee these light weight hoodies for those of you that live in the lower 40s.
Yeah. Great. No, Brady Lanter texted me. He was like,
Brady today. He's in Michigan. He's in Michigan. He said today is light weight hoody day.
Yeah. Well, he also did a good job of posting that little thing of him out in the freezing cold.
And he was like, we just need to light weight up here. Because he's hard to go. Oh, you're
teasing. Oh, okay. He's hard to work. He's hard to work. Well, right. If you're not as hard
work as Brady in those circumstances, we have heavy weight hoodies too. So boom, light and heavy,
whatever you need, whatever you like. A lot of cool stuff on there. If you like something,
good. So don't forget about jocquay T, which I am currently drinking. And the reason I'm drinking
it is not only because it tastes good, but also because I like having an 8,000 pound deadlift
actually 100% guaranteed. If you drink a jocquay T and you can't deadlift 8,000 pounds,
you can send me the empty can and I'll send you the nickel for the can. Yeah. So that's
don't forget to subscribe to the podcast because if you don't then go ahead and you just don't
know what you're thinking. You know what? You don't subscribe. Yeah, if you don't subscribe, then you're
not subscribed, which isn't good. Kind of like a case when you launch occasionally,
but rare occasion, we launch something randomly for like some kind of an event, some kind of
a situation for launch the rent. So if you're just expecting, oh, it's Wednesday, I know when I'm
going to get the podcast that you jump on there. There's another one waiting for you. Yeah. So
if you want to get those, know those, subscribe to the podcast, whatever you subscribe to the podcast.
And don't forget about the Warrior Kid podcast, which is awesome. For some reason, I always clear
myself hot to say that Warrior Kid stuff is awesome. I think it's because I'm saying it as like a
dad. You know what I mean? Yes, I do know. I'm not saying it directed at myself. Yeah, look, I don't mean
like, hey, I'm great at the Warrior Kid podcast. I'm not saying that. I'm saying it as a dad. You can
get your kid to listen to Warrior Kid podcast. It will benefit them greatly in trying to figure out
the ways of the world and how to live in this crazy world that we have. And also, there's a Warrior
Kid that makes soap in Central California. Well, I guess it's Southern California, but anyways, Irish
Oaks Ranch.com, young Aiden, runner-to-business, at least 13 years old, pretty soon he's not going
to be a kid anymore. But in the meantime, you get some of the soap so you can stay clean. And we got
a YouTube video channel. Was that what it's called? Yeah, yes, you video channel. Yeah, right as opposed
to YouTube what channel? Audio channel. Well, anyways, on that video channel on YouTube, which the
video channel is called, Jocco podcast. That's the video channel, right? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. So if you go to
that, you can watch a bunch of videos that Echo Charles made. And you can watch this podcast. You can
see what Echo Charles looks like. He looks like not like what he sounds evidently. And also, he
makes, he's, what do you, what do you experiment with? Sure. Yeah, he makes videos with his own personal skills.
Right? Yeah, such an eloquent interest thing. Well, the thing is I feel like a lot of times when you
make videos, you're not, you're experimenting. You know what? You're not that is, it's not like,
it's not like I'm saying, hey, make this video and here's the effect that we want. Right, right, right.
You're just over there just making videos. And they just, with your own vision. Yeah. Well,
the goal, okay, so the goal, well, the goal for the whole YouTube thing is sure the video version,
you know, watch the podcast, which you know, man, that's I dig it now. A lot of people do that. I dig it.
And then the excerpts we have excerpts on there too. If you don't watch the whole thing, you know,
you can watch, you can share those. Yeah. Cool. But yeah, and then sure, I'll take an excerpts
essentially, taking excerpts and kind of video wise has some fun with it. You know, add some
facts and music and stuff. And yes, very much experimental. What we should make a video of what my life
would be like if everything was reflective of how your videos are. I thought about that. Yeah,
that was going to funny. Because like actually that warpath video, that's essentially kind of
trying to do the thing is like if you're on the warpath and here's all the things that you're doing.
So it showed like, you know, the little video clips of me when I or not of me that I got of you
just doing your stuff. You do. And writing and stuff. So you put it on the warpath. That's kind of what
it represents a little bit. It's just a path of destruction in a constructive way. Check. So you can
do that. You can also get psychological warfare, which is a little bunch of tracks to help you over
come moments of weakness, which apparently are quite effective because I've had many people
explained to me that they utilize them regularly. Yeah. So psychological warfare, iTunes, Google Play,
MP3, platforms of all kinds. You can you can check that out. Also check out Flipside
Canvas, which is Dakota Meyer. If you have a listen of episode 115 of this podcast, it's one of
the most popular podcasts, one of the heaviest podcasts, one of the most impactful podcasts.
And there's a lot of impactful podcasts. So I guess that's saying a lot. But Dakota's making,
what are they, what was he making? One of those things called canvases or art, right? Hang yeah,
pieces. Yeah. And they, he's got a bunch of different ones, but he actually has made some kind of
based on this podcast. He's got one that says discipline equals freedom. He's got one that says good.
He's got one that says time is running out. And he's got one that says, yeah, to have grit.
So if you want to get one of those, if you want to post that thing up, then you can post it up.
You can just have a giant get after it on your ceiling where you sleep. So when you wake up in the
morning, the first thing you see is a giant sign. It says get after it. So check out that. Yes,
very good ones too. I was looking. I was actually browsing like a bunch of them. But there was a good
man. Yeah. It was a good and made in America. I forgot to say that. But once again, same thing,
same thing as origin. But now we're in Texas. We're building. We have the factory. We're making them.
We're printing them. It's all American made. Yeah. So you're not just supporting
the Dakota who is an awesome guy to support. You're also supporting just America in general,
which is a positive thing. Oh yeah. Big touch. Also, when you're expanding our home gyms,
this is what we're going to do. We're going to go to onat.com slash joko and get your stuff there.
That's where you get good stuff rings, kettlebells, kettlebells, big deal. That's like a staple.
The rings in the kettlebells. Big staple. Yeah.
A lot of good stuff on there. Some those elk bars. Oh yeah. Yeah. Those are a big deal too. Those
come in the in the clutch when you want a little snack. Look, you need a little something. Yeah.
Get yourself on those elk bars. Yes. Especially if you're lifting kettlebells, you're
probably going to need some elk bars to supplement this scenario. Oh yeah. Big time. A lot of good stuff
on there. Anyway onat.com. You got to go. You got to go. Like the characters or whatever. Right.
What? The kettlebells? Yeah. Oh yeah. The whole set. Right. What else did you get? Did you get any
Star Wars ones? Yes. Yeah. The Star Wars. Do you feel pride when you say that answer is so
quest? Yes. As if like that makes you better than me. A little bit. Yes. They do a little bit.
But yeah. Well, what? The Star Wars doesn't really hit that. Like strong. Yeah. All right.
You know. No. It's good. It's good. But it doesn't. I don't know. Well, they have the mar- what
about Marvel because they have like a Iron Man 1, 2. Yeah. That doesn't surprise me. But it's dope though.
Yeah. No. I saw which one did you get? Did you get Darth Vader? No. You know,
I got this. Stormtrooper. Yeah. I'm going to get the Darth Vader one for sure. I'm going to get
all of my stuff. Is that the biggest one? That's the biggest one. It's a 48. No, it's bigger.
I think it's bigger than a 48 kilogram. Oh, no, no. Sorry. I was going to say no. That's the biggest
I have. It might be the step up. This arms race one more time. 40 kilograms. So all it's over
hundred pounds. Yeah. Six pounds. What's your biggest one? My biggest one is the big foot 190.
It depends on the. Okay. That's good. Whatever. Yeah. On the last. Anyway, on it.com. A lot of good stuff
on there gets something. Hey, you got a bunch of books too. Mike in the dragons book for younger
kids when they learn to deal with and overcome fear. Way the warrior kid and marks mission.
And now we have book three coming out and actually a little kid posted a book review of way
of the warrior kid. I'm going to have to repost it. But it's legit. Yeah. Little kids a BMX racer. He
talks about all the rules of the way the warrior kid and how they apply to his life. How he has to
take care of his BMX bike. Take care of your gear has to eat properly has to get up early, get on the
plan. So pretty cool to see if you want your kids to be on the plan or if you want your neighbor
kids to be on the plan or if you want your kids into school get this book series of books,
where the warrior kid marks mission and book three coming out. It'll be available for preorder very
soon. I'll let everyone know. It's called Where There's a Will. And then the discipline goes
freedom field manual. Just how to get after it mentally and physically and emotionally.
Feeling. Yeah. The fact that that book is continuing. I'm continuing to get the best
feedback on that book. So it was cool now people are posting the pictures of it. Okay. This page
got me through today. Yeah. So there you go. Just when you go freedom field manual get that one.
It's not on audible. It's on iTunes Amazon music Google play on it's on MP3 platforms. Don't
forget about extreme ownership. The first book I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin, about what we
learned in combat and how you can apply it to your business and your world and your life. And
then we followed that up with the dichotomy of leadership at which we are now getting multiple reports
from the battlefield that the dichotomy of leadership is a little bit better. Some people think.
I am. I kind of felt that way. But you know extreme ownership has the core.
Like it's always going to have. It's always going to be the bigger brother. Yeah. That's the O.G.
But you never know, man. dichotomy sometimes that that other kid, right? Yeah. Sometimes the other kid
has the has a little bit. You can learn lessons. That's exactly what happened with dichotomy.
We learned lessons after we wrote extreme ownership and said, you know, what the most,
you know, with the hardest thing for people to do is balance the dichotomy of leadership. That was
chapter 12. In extreme ownership, then it became a whole book. Yeah. So it was kind of like
rambo, right? You know, so rambo when people say, who do you think you're rambo?
They're talking about rambo first blood part two. Right. So dichotomy is kind of like rambo where
like people are like, oh, I love the dichotomy love, but but the people who know know that first blood
is the real movie is the real O.G. One that rambo's not better. Rambo's not rambo gets a lot of glory.
They get the praise and it's awesome. Well, one thing that I guarantee you is that dichotomy leadership
is not jaws to which no one talks about jaws to no one cares about jaws. Oh,
just as one is epic. Yeah. So the dichotomy leadership is epic and it's own right. It's like
any can stand on its own. But it's still going to be still on the shadow. It seems to be coming
out from the shadow. I guess that's what I'm saying. Just like rambo. Okay. Well, that's good.
Don't forget about echelon front. That is our leadership consultancy is we solve problems
through leadership. So it's me, Dave Babin, JP, and El Dave Burke, Flynn, Cockran, Mike's
really Mike Bima and Jason Gardner. Go to echelonfront.com for details if you want us to come and
help you align the leadership inside your organization. So you can destroy your competitors.
Is that a little bit much? Maybe. But what do you want to do? Give them a gentle massage? No,
you want to crush them. So if you want to do that reach out echelonfront.com. Don't forget about the
master. We have musters. It's a leadership event. Two days long. We're doing it in Chicago,
in Denver, and it's Sydney this year. Go to extremownership.com. Every one of these events that we've
done have sold out. So these are all going to sell out. They're on track to sell out right now.
So if you want to come to those go to echelonfront.com and or extremownership.com, and you can
register now before it sells out. And when it sells out, you're in me mad. Don't be mad at me.
Take ownership of it. I'm trying to take ownership right now. Telling you that it's going to sell out.
I'm taking ownership of the fact that it's going to sell out. And I'm trying to communicate it to you.
Hopefully listen. So that's that. Yeah, fall in line. If you can't make it to the master. Or let's say you
got 300 people in your company or 3000 people in your company. And you want to bring them all the
master. And you can't. Or you want to bring echelonfront in. But echelonfront. We can't travel to the
nine countries that your company is located at. So guess what? That's why we made EF online so that you
can do and your entire organization can get completely aligned in how you are utilizing leadership
across your organization. So it's online, but it's not just watching videos. It's yes, there's
videos, but it's also interactive where you get put in the leadership scenarios. And then you have to
figure out what to do. And if you choose the wrong scenario, you're going to lead your company or your
platoon into a bad situation. So check it out. EF online.com. And I already talked about this.
HeF overwatch. This is the company that we have now where we're taking special operations and combat
aviation people, leaders and putting them into companies. So that the companies can utilize the
leadership skills of these experienced combat leaders to help their company lead to victory.
And as I mentioned earlier, you don't. I recommend you don't hire just based on experience.
Recommend you hire people based on the talent that they have. Especially the leadership capable
to the staff. And if you want to stay in the game with us, Echo and I are actually on the
interwebs. We are on Twitter. We are on Instagram. And we are on the FISH book. Echo is Echo Charles
and I am at Jockawilling. And thanks to the police and law enforcement, firefighters,
paramedics, EMTs, correctional officers, border patrols, all first responders, including the
dispatchers. I spent some time as I said with the police out in North Carolina recently. And
what a tough job. And what a great bunch of people out there putting it all in the line to protect
us here at home. And of course, to our military men and women, like the one that I open up this
podcast with Fred Garland, Bragg, Jr. First Lieutenant, US Army, killed an action Vietnam on July
12th, 1967. But a hero, a leader and an example to all of us that regardless of the odds you are facing,
you can stand up and you can fight. And to everyone else out there, you can do the same thing.
Every day stand up to whatever challenges you face and get after it.
And until next time, this is Echo and Jockaw.
Thank you for your pe Fine.